from long use, and in the resolute gestures of his
large, red, sunburnt hands, with an old betrothal ring on
the little finger. 722 of 1759 Anna Karenina Chapter 27
eBook brought to you by If I d only the
heart to throw up what s been set going...such a
lot of trouble wasted...I d turn my back on the
whole business, sell up, go off like Nikolay Ivanovitch...to hear
La Belle Helene, said the landowner, a pleasant smile lighting
up his shrewd old face. But you see you don
t throw it up, said Nikolay Ivanovitch Sviazhsky; so there
must be something gained. The only gain is that I
live in my own house, neither bought nor hired. Besides,
one keeps hoping the people will learn sense. Though, instead
of that, you d never believe it-the drunkenness, the immorality!
They keep chopping and changing their bits of land. Not
a sight of a horse or a cow. The peasant
s dying of hunger, but just go and take him
on as a laborer, he ll do his best to
do you a mischief, and then bring you up before
the justice of the peace. But then you make complaints
to the justice too, said Sviazhsky. I lodge complaints? Not
for anything in the world! Such a talking, and such
a to-do, that one would have 723 of 1759 Anna
Karenina cause to regret it. At the works, for instance,
they pocketed the advance-money and made off. What did the
justice do? Why, acquitted them. Nothing keeps them in order
but their own communal court and their village elder. He
ll flog them in the good old style! But for
that there d be nothing for it but to give
it all up and run away. Obviously the landowner was
chaffing Sviazhsky, who, far from resenting it, was apparently amused
by it. But you see we manage our land without
such extreme measures, said be, smiling: Levin and I and
this gentleman. He indicated the other landowner. Yes, the thing
s done at Mihail Petrolvitch s, but ask him how
it s done. Do you call that a rational system?
said the landowner, obviously rather proud of the word rational.
My system s very simple, said Mihail Petrovitch, thank God.
All my management rests on getting the money ready for
the autumn taxes, and the peasants come to me, Father,
master, help us! Well, the peasants are all one s
neighbors; one feels for them. So one advances them a
third, but one says: Remember, lads, I have helped you,
and you must help me when I need it-whether it
s the 724 of 1759 Anna Karenina sowing of the
oats, or the haycutting, or the harvest ; and well,
one agrees, so much for each taxpayer-though there are dishonest
ones among them too, it s true. Levin, who had
long been familiar with these patriarchal methods, exchanged glances with
Sviazhsky and interrupted Mihail Petrovitch, turning again to the gentleman
with the gray whiskers. Then what do you think? he
asked; what system is one to adopt nowadays? Why, manage
like Mihail Petrovitch, or let the land for half the
crop or for rent to the peasants; that one can
do-only that s just how the general prosperity of the
country is being ruined. Where the land with serf-labor
