will be your hut. equip it as you will," he said. "you mean, i may live here? this hut will
be mine? just like that?" she said. "of course. you made it through the cave. you are one of us.
we always keep one hut empty to house the next adventurer to make the trek. we hadn t anticipated three
at once. work on the ohure huts will begin first thing tomorrow," he said. "where will leo sleep?" she asked.
"leo is your vulpine friend, i presume. he will be spending a day or two in the cleric s hut.
what happened to him? i heard a bit of the chatter when they were hauling him out of the water
and it seems he has been mangled physically and spiritually. it is going to take some of our best healers
to untie the knots," he said. "as for myn here, i am sure we can make some arrangements for her,
too . . ." "oh, she sleeps beside me," myranda said. "are you certain?" he asked. "since she was hatched,"
myranda assured him. "oh, all right then," he said, eyebrow raised. "why?" she asked. "well, you see, the act of
breathing fire is not always a strictly voluntary one. occasionally, they let loose a puff or two in their sleep.
not enough to kill, mind you, but more than enough to set the bed aflame. thus, sleeping in a bed
with a dragon is generally inadvisable. however, if you have been doing so for this long then it is clearly
not an issue," he said. "in a wardrobe in your bedroom, you will find a number of blue robes and
tunics. they should fit well enough until we can make some specifically for you. i will make the necessary arrangements
for you. you just have a well-earned rest. when you wake, find the nearest person and they will set you
on your way." "but where will you be?" she asked. "likely i will be scribing. it consumes most of my
time. anyone in the village will be more than willing to help you, you needn t come to me. however,
if you need me, just say my name and someone will point you in my direction," he said. he took
his leave and closed the door. myranda quickly changed into the fresh clothes. they were a bit too large for
her, but as the first change of clothes she d had in weeks, they were heavenly. she fell into the
bed and was asleep before myn joined her a moment later. as was too often the case, myranda s dreams
were tortured. this time, though, they twisted at her mind in a new way. now she was taunted with images
of leo. memories of all of the good he had done for her intermingled with imagined instances of lies and
treachery. she was forced to relive her time captured in the church with the role of her captor now recast
with the face of her former friend. the man she had trusted, who had given her the help she needed,
was now tying her up. the kind, thoughtful friend was now striking down men and putting a blade to her
throat. it was agony. she was jarred from her sleep by the departure of myn, who leapt from the bed
and pushed the door open. the golden light of sunrising and the sounds of morning filtered through the doors. myranda
drifted in and out of sleep for a time. finally she heard a voice and opened her eyes. standing before
her was deacon. he had an amused and slightly apologetic look on his face. "i am sorry to wake you,
but we have something of a situation that you may be able to help with," he said. "of course," she
said, pulling herself groggily to her feet. deacon again offered his arm, but she didn t need the help anymore.
"leo is undergoing a rather unpleasant procedure. you see, his legs had been broken multiple times in the past. they
were left to heal naturally, and many did so poorly. we have found that the best way to deal with
such an ailment is to allow the legs to heal correctly," he explained as the pair moved toward the cluster
of huts that had been painted white. "heal correctly? but you said they had already healed," she said. "therein lies
the issue. the legs must be re-broken. generally the patient would be put to sleep or at least deprived of
feeling for such a procedure, but leo apparently asked to have the work done free of aid. two successful breaks
had been made when your ohure little friend made her appearance. she has taken a stance atop leo and will
not allow any of our healers near. we ve tried to take care of the situation with magic, but it
appears our spells are not having an effect. a number of the clerics were eager to put the more powerful
spells to work, but i thought perhaps you could handle it more easily," he said. myranda was led inside one
of the huts. five white-robed healers were in a circle around the table upon which leo was lying. standing over
leo was myn, her jaws snapping at anyone who approached from in front and her tail lashing anyone who approached
from behind. as soon as myranda was in sight, myn fairly began to dance in place, anxiously shifting from foot
to foot. leo whispered something in a language myranda could not identify and the healers filed out of the hut.
deacon lingered in the doorway before leaving and shutting the door behind him. "they tell me you have a problem,"
myranda said. "deacon thought i could help." "myn will not let them do what needs to be done," leo said.
"i have spoken to her, but she will not listen. i doubt that there is anything that you can do
that hasn t been tried." "maybe she just doesn t believe you. you ve given me very little reason
