year, my response changed. i said, "yes, i also want a divorce." it shocked him, as this was something he
was not prepared for. nor was he prepared for the beginning of my emergence as a new woman. now alex
took some action. first he suggested that we have a baby then suggested that we see a counselor. to prove
to myself and to others that i tried everything to save the marriage, i agreed to counseling after alex set
up an appointment. in my heart i knew it was over. i just needed the confidence and encouragement to end
the marriage. upon entering the therapist s room i was terrified and didn t know what to expect. the therapist
was a pleasant middle-aged man, and his room was decorated in soothing colors, but my fears remained. i cannot recall
the exact words he used, but he was interested in understanding what i wanted. i could not respond to him
coherently. the floodgates opened and i sobbed the whole first session. for the first time in my life a person
of authority - a man - was not telling me what i should do, but asking me what i wanted
to do. at age twenty-nine, i had to plan my own future. when i released all the bottled-up emotions, we
progressed by analyzing my dreams. my most common dream was of the embarrassment my parents would feel when i told
them i was getting a divorce. in 1959, only one of my twenty-five cousins had been divorced. i would have
the distasteful distinction of being the second divorcee, although many more would follow. when i announced to my parents and
friends that i was getting a divorce, they were very supportive. their most typical comment was, "what took you so
long?" we think we have our family secrets well concealed, but friends can often see through all that. curtain opens
after our second month of counseling, alex suggested i take the month of september to visit my family in boonton.
he hoped the trip would change my mind about a divorce. the plan was for me to drive his sister
s mg-a across country; his sister, mary, would fly to the east coast to meet me for the return trip.
an mg-a is a two-seat sports car with a trunk that holds the spare tire and whatever small soft items
that could be placed around it. we put a luggage rack on the trunk lid to hold two suitcases. on
the drive east, i arranged the passenger side to hold a small ice chest for water, drinks and some food.
i had nuts, cookies and candies (heaven forbid that i should get hungry), a clipboard for writing notes while driving,
many auto club maps and, of course, my camera. i liked driving alone. my mind is free to wander, and
i found i could often solve problems that had seemed insurmountable. this trip was different from previous ones; it was
my first solo trip of this distance, almost 2,800 miles one-way. my favorite part of any trip is the planning,
and this trip was doubly challenging because i was going to be both driver and navigator. i planned only the
route and did not factor in overnight stops; i carried a pillow and blanket tucked behind the seats, so i
could take catnaps whenever i felt fatigued. i only slept in a motel when my body said i needed to.
my economy run training taught me how to pace myself. the route i laid out was through las vegas, over
the rocky mountains, across vail pass (el. 10,603 ft.), berthoud pass (el. 11,314 ft.), and through the rocky mountain national
park to estes park in colorado. from there i planned to drive east through kansas city, st. louis, indianapolis, columbus,
and pittsburgh. then at harrisburg, i would head northeast for boonton. sports cars then did not have air conditioning and
i knew i would have to endure the dry heat of the desert west of the rockies and the humidity
through the great plains east of the rockies. i planned to keep the cloth top up and the side curtains
off. to avoid as much of the heat of the california and nevada desert as i could, i left redondo
beach at 2:00 am, reminiscent of my mobil gas economy run. north of las vegas, the highway was smooth and
passed through miles of desert. the grade of the road was gradual and without much effort, i had reached 5,000
feet at the turnoff to grand junction. from there the scenery and the road changed. the steep twisting roads were
lined with pines and aspens. it was the perfect road for a sports car; i shifted gears down and up
to master the road condition. at that elevation the temperature dropped significantly. the air was crisp, clean and invigorating. the
road crossed the continental divide several times as i followed it above the tree line in the rockies, where there
were patches of snow on the ground that delighted some small children who made snowballs to throw at each other
and their parents. each time i stepped out of the car to take a picture of a breathtaking view, i
was overwhelmed by the utter silence. the only sound was the wind blowing around my ears. i stopped for lunch
at one of the passes. across the road from the coffee shop was a chairlift, which seemed like a perfect
diversion from my steady driving. i paid and hopped on. from the top i had a commanding view of the
never-ending range of mountains. the snow-covered peaks of the taller mountains stood out. when i looked down, the mg-a was
the size of an ant. now i ran into a bit of trouble. i had miscalculated the distance to estes
park, as well as the availability of gas stations along the way. earlier i passed up an opportunity to fill
the tank because the station did not accept my gas credit card and i thought i could soon find
