was the first airships i ever seen. no wonder-jim wanted to-" ander?on s voice broke a little at this juncture
and he paused. all was still except the murmur of the running water and the ?ong of the insects. presently
ander?on cleared his throat and resumed: "i saw five hundred australian ?oldiers just arrived in new york by way of
panama. lean, wiry boys like arizona cowboys. looked good to me! you ought to have heard the cheerin . roar
an roar, everywhere they marched along. i saw united states sailors, marines, ?oldiers, airmen, english officers, an scotch ?oldiers. them
last sure got my eye. funny plaid skirts they wore-an they had bare legs. three i saw walked lame. an
all had medals. ?ome one said the germans called these scotch ladies from hell. ... when i heard that i
had to ask questions, an i learned these queerlookin halfwomendressed fellows were simply hell with cold steel. an after i
heard that i looked again an wondered why i hadn t seen it. i ought to know men!... then i
saw the outfit of blue devil frenchmen that was sent over to help stimulate the liberty loan. an when i
seen them i took off my hat. i ve knowed a heap of tough men an bad men an handy
men an fightin men in my day, but i reckoned i never seen the like of the blue devils. i
can t tell you why, boys. blue devils is another german name for a regiment of french ?oldiers. they had
it on the scotchmen. any western man, just to look at them, would think of wild bill an billy the
kid an geronimo an custer, an see that mebbe the whole four mixed in one might have made a blue
devil. "my young friend dorn, that s dyin upstairs, now-he had a name given him. pears that this wartime is
like the old days when we used to hit on right pert names for everybody.... demon dorn they called him,
an he got that handle before he ever reached france. the boys of his outfit gave it to him because
of the way he run wild with a bayonet. i don t want my girl lenore ever to know that.
"a ?oldier named owens told me a lot. he was the corporal of dorn s outfit, a ?ort of foreman,
i reckon. anyway, he saw dorn every day of the months they were in the service, an the shell that
done dorn made a cripple of owens. this fellow owens said dorn had not got ?o close to his bunkmates
until they reached france. then he begun to have influence over them. owens didn t know how he did it-in
fact, never knew it at all until the outfit got to the front, ?omewhere in northern france, in the first
line. they Were days in the first line, close up to the germans, watchin an sneakin all the time, shootin
an dodgin , but they never had but one real fight. "that was when one mornin the germans came pilin
over on a charge, far outnumberin our boys. then it happened. lord! i wish i could remember how owens told
that scrap! boys, you never heard about a real scrap. it takes war like this to make men fighters.... listen,
now, an i ll tell you ?ome of the things that come off durin this german charge. i ll tell
them just as they come to mind. there was a boy named griggs who ran the german barrage-an that s
a gantlet-seven times to fetch ammunition to his pards. another boy, on the same errand, was twice blown off the
road by explodin shells, an then went back. owens told of two of his company who rushed a bunch of
germans, killed eight of them, an captured their machinegun. before that german charge a big shell came over an kicked
up a hill of mud. next day the americans found their sentinel buried in mud, dead at his post, with
his bayonet presented. "owens was shot just as he jumped up with his pards to meet the chargin germans. he
fell an dragged himself against a wall of bags, where he lay watchin the fight. an it ?o happened that
he faced dorn s squad, which was attacked by three times their number. he saw dorn shot-go down, an thought
he was done-but no! dorn came up with one side of his face all blood. dixon, a college football man,
rushed a german who was about to throw a bomb. dixon got him, an got the bomb, too, when it
went off. little rogers, an irish boy, mixed it with three germans, an killed one before he was bayoneted in
the back. then dorn, like the demon they d named him, went on the stampede. he had a different way
with a bayonet, ?o owens claimed. an dorn was heavy, powerful, an fast. he lifted an slung those two germans,
one after another, quick as that!-like you d toss a couple of wheat sheafs with your pitchfork, an he sent
them rollin , with blood squirtin all over. an then four more germans were shootin at him. right into their
teeth dorn run-laughin wild an terrible, owens said, an the germans couldn t stop that flashin bayonet. dorn ripped them
all open, an before they d stopped floppin he was on the bunch that d killed brewer an were makin
it hard for his other pards.... whew!-owens told it all as if it d took lots of time, but that
fight was like lightnin an i can t remember how it was. only demon dorn laid out nine germans before
they retreated. nine! owens seen him do it, like a mad bull loose. then the shell came over that put
dorn out, an owens, too. "well, dorn had a mangled arm, an many wounds. they amputated his arm in france,
patched him up, an sent him back to new york with a lot of other wounded ?oldiers. they expected
