said he soothingly, "the king will be on his way to the chapel in an instant." "it is not yet time." "i think the hour has just gone."
"and why should i wait, like a lackey?" "it is but a moment, madame." "no, i shall not wait." she took a step forward towards the door. but
the guardsman s quick ear had caught the sound of moving feet from within, and he knew that he was master of the situation. "i will take madame
s message," said he. "ah, you have recovered your senses! go, tell the king that i wish to speak with him." he must gain a little time yet.
"shall i say it through the lord in waiting?" "no: yourself." "publicly?" "no, no: for his private ear." "shall i give a reason for your request?" "oh, you
madden me! say what i have told you, and at once." but the young officer s dilemma was happily over. at that instant the double doors were swung
open, and louis appeared in the opening, strutting forwards on his high-heeled shoes, his stick tapping, his broad skirts flapping, and his courtiers spreading out behind him. he
stopped as he came out, and turned to the captain of the guard. "you have a note for me?" "yes, sire." the monarch slipped it into the pocket
of his scarlet undervest, and was advancing once more when his eyes fell upon madame de montespan standing very stiff and erect in the middle of the passage.
a dark flush of anger shot to his brow, and he walked swiftly past her without a word; but she turned and kept pace with him down the
corridor. "i had not expected this honour, madame," said he. "nor had i expected this insult, sire." "an insult, madame? you forget yourself." "no; it is you who
have forgotten me, sire." "you intrude upon me." "i wished to hear my fate from your own lips," she whispered. "i can bear to be struck myself, sire,
even by him who has my heart. but it is hard to hear that one s brother has been wounded through the mouths of valets and huguenot soldiers
for no fault of his, save that his sister has loved too fondly." "it is no time to speak of such things." "when can i see you, then,
sire?" "in your chamber." "at what hour?" "at four." "then i shall trouble your majesty no further." she swept him one of the graceful courtesies for which she
was famous, and turned away down a side passage with triumph shining in her eyes. her beauty and her spirit had never failed her yet, and now that
she had the monarch s promise of an interview she never doubted that she could do as she had done before, and win back the heart of the
man, however much against the conscience of the king. louis had walked on to his devotions in no very charitable frame of mind, as was easily to be
seen from his clouded brow and compressed lips. he knew his late favourite well, her impulsiveness, her audacity, her lack of all restraint when thwarted or opposed. she
was capable of making a hideous scandal, of turning against him that bitter tongue which had so often made him laugh at the expense of others, perhaps even
of making some public exposure which would leave him the butt and gossip of europe. he shuddered at the thought. at all costs such a catastrophe must be
averted. and yet how could he cut the tie which bound them? he had broken other such bonds as these; but the gentle la valliere had shrunk into
a convent at the very first glance which had told her of waning love. that was true affection. but this woman would struggle hard, fight to the bitter
end, before she would quit the position which was so dear to her. she spoke of her wrongs. what were her wrongs? in his intense selfishness, nurtured by
the eternal flattery which was the very air he breathed, he could not see that the fifteen years of her life which he had absorbed, or the loss
of the husband whom he had supplanted, gave her any claim upon him. in his view he had raised her to the highest position which a subject could
occupy. now he was weary of her, and it was her duty to retire with resignation, nay, even with gratitude for past favours. she should have a pension,
and the children should be cared for. what could a reasonable woman ask for more? and then his motives for discarding her were so excellent. he turned them
over in his mind as he knelt listening to the archbishop of paris reciting the mass, and the more he thought, the more he approved, his conception of
the deity was as a larger louis, and of heaven as a more gorgeous versailles. if he exacted obedience from his twenty millions, then he must show it
also to this one who had a right to demand it of him. on the whole, his conscience acquitted him. but in this one matter he had
