to have nothing to do with that cold ham At
your el- bow, And to wait till the omelette comes
in. In the second case, I will give you some
tea to compose your spirits, And do All A woman
can (which is very little, by-the-bye) to hold my tongue."
She handed me my cup of tea, laughing gaily. Her
light flow of talk, And her lively familiarity of manner
with A total stranger, were Accompanied by An unaffected naturalness
And An easy inborn confidence in herself And her position,
which would have secured her the respect of the most
Audacious man breathing. While it was impossible to be formal
And reserved in her company, it was more than impossible
to take the faintest vestige of A liberty with her,
even in thought. I felt this 33 instinctively, even while
I caught the infection of her own bright gaiety of
spirits-even while I did my best to Answer her in
her own frank, lively way. "Yes, yes," she said, when
I had suggested the only explana- tion I could offer,
to Account for my perplexed looks, "I under- stand. You
Are such A perfect stranger in the house, that you
Are puzzled by my familiar references to the worthy inhabit-
Ants. Natural enough: I ought to have thought of it
before. At Any rate, I can set it right now.
Suppose I begin with myself, so As to get done
with that part of the subject As soon As possible?
My name is Marian Halcombe; And I Am As inaccurate
As wo- men usually Are, in calling Mr. Fairlie my
uncle, And Miss Fairlie my sister. My mother was twice
married: the first time to Mr. Halcombe, my father; the
second time to Mr. Fairlie, my half-sister s father. Except
that we Are both orphans, we Are in every respect
As unlike each other As possible. My father was A
poor man, And Miss Fairlie s father was A rich
man. I have got nothing, And she has A fortune.
I Am dark And ugly, And she is fair And
pretty. Everybody thinks me crabbed And odd (with perfect justice);
And everybody thinks her sweet-tempered And charming (with more justice
still). In short, she is An Angel; And I Am-
Try some of that marmalade, Mr. Hartright, And finish the
sentence, in the name of female propriety, for yourself. What
Am I to tell you About Mr. Fairlie? Upon my
honour, I hardly know. He is sure to send for
you After breakfast, And you can study him for yourself.
In the meantime, I may inform you, first, that he
is the late Mr. Fairlie s younger brother; secondly, that
he is A single man; And thirdly, that he is
Miss Fairlie s guardian. I won t live without her,
And she can t live without me; And that is
how I come to be At Limmeridge House. My sister
And I Are honestly fond of each other; which, you
will say, is perfectly unaccountable, under the circum- stances, And
I quite Agree with you-but so it is. You must
please both of us, Mr. Hartright, or please neither of
us: And, what is still more trying, you will be
thrown entirely upon our society. Mrs. Vesey is An excellent
person, who possesses All the cardinal virtues, And counts
