The members of these couples tend to define themselves as each other s best friends. Folk wisdom tells us that the first
three dyads are unstable. Sexual attraction wanes and is replaced by sexual attrition in most cases. This could lead to the adoption
of non-conventional sexual behavior patterns (sexual abstinence, group sex, couple swapping, etc.) - or to recurrent marital infidelity. Pecuniary concerns are insufficient
grounds for a lasting relationship, either. In today s world, both partners are potentially financially independent. This new found autonomy gnaws at
the roots of traditional patriarchal-domineering-disciplinarian relationships. Marriage is becoming a more balanced, business like, arrangement with children and the couple s welfare
and life standard as its products. Thus, marriages motivated solely by economic considerations are as likely to unravel as any other joint
venture. Admittedly, social pressures help maintain family cohesiveness and stability. But - being thus enforced from the outside - such marriages resemble
detention rather than a voluntary, joyful collaboration. Moreover, social norms, peer pressure, and social conformity cannot be relied upon to fulfil the
roles of stabilizer and shock absorber indefinitely. Norms change and peer pressure can backfire ("If all my friends are divorced and apparently
content, why shouldn t I try it, too ?"). Only the companionship dyad seems to be durable. Friendships deepen with time. While
sex loses its initial, biochemically-induced, luster, economic motives are reversed or voided, and social norms are fickle - companionship, like wine, improves
with time. Even when planted on the most desolate land, under the most difficult and insidious circumstances, the obdurate seed of companionship
sprouts and blossoms. "Matchmaking is made in heaven" goes the old Jewish adage but Jewish matchmakers in centuries past were not averse
to lending the divine a hand. After closely scrutinizing the background of both candidates - male and female - a marriage was
pronounced. In other cultures, marriages are still being arranged by prospective or actual fathers without asking for the embryos or the toddlers
consent. The surprising fact is that arranged marriages last much longer than those which are the happy outcomes of romantic love. Moreover:
the longer a couple cohabitates prior to their marriage, the higher the likelihood of divorce. Counterintuitively, romantic love and cohabitation ("getting to
know each other better") are negative precursors and predictors of marital longevity. Companionship grows out of friction and interaction within an irreversible
formal arrangement (no "escape clauses"). In many marriages where divorce is not an option (legally, or due to prohibitive economic or social
costs), companionship grudgingly develops and with it contentment, if not happiness. Companionship is the offspring of pity and empathy. It is based
on and shared events and fears and common suffering. It reflects the wish to protect and to shield each other from the
hardships of life. It is habit forming. If lustful sex is fire - companionship is old slippers: comfortable, static, useful, warm, secure.
Experiments and experience show that people in constant touch get attached to one another very quickly and very thoroughly. This is a
reflex that has to do with survival. As infants, we get attached to other mothers and our mothers get attached to us.
In the absence of social interactions, we die younger. We need to bond and to make others depend on us in order
to survive. The mating (and, later, marital) cycle is full of euphorias and dysphorias. These "mood swings" generate the dynamics of seeking
mates, copulating, coupling (marrying) and reproducing. The source of these changing dispositions can be found in the meaning that we attach to
marriage which is perceived as the real, irrevocable, irreversible and serious entry into adult society. Previous rites of passage (like the Jewish
Bar Mitzvah, the Christian Communion and more exotic rites elsewhere) prepare us only partially to the shocking realization that we are about
to emulate our parents. During the first years of our lives, we tend to view our parents as omnipotent, omniscient, and omnipresent
demigods. Our perception of them, of ourselves and of the world is magical. All entities - ourselves and our caregivers included -
are entangled, constantly interacting, and identity interchanging ("shape shifting"). At first, therefore, our parents are idealized. Then, as we get disillusioned, they
are internalized to become the first and most important among the inner voices that guide our lives. As we grow up (adolescence)
we rebel against our parents (in the final phases of identity formation) and then learn to accept them and to resort to
them in times of need. But the primordial gods of Our infancy never die, nor do they lie dormant. They lurk in
our superego, engaged in incessant dialogue with the other structures of our personality. They constantly criticize and analyze, make suggestions and reproach.
The hiss of these voices is the background radiation of our personal big bang. Thus, to decide to get married (to imitate
our parents), is to challenge and tempt the gods, to commit sacrilege, to negate the very existence of our progenitors, to defile
the inner sanctum of our formative years. This is a rebellion so momentous, so all encompassing, that it touches upon the very
foundation of our personality. Inevitably, we (unconsciously) shudder in anticipation of the imminent and, no doubt, horrible punishment that awaits us for
this iconoclastic presumptuousness. This is the first dysphoria, which accompanies our mental preparations prior to getting wed. Getting ready to get hitched
carries a price tag: the activation of a host of primitive and hitherto dormant defence mechanisms - denial, regression, repression, protection. This
self-induced panic is the result of an inner conflict. On the one hand, we know that it is unhealthy to live as
recluses (both biologically and psychologically). With the passage of time, we are urgently propelled to find a mate. On the other hand,
there is the above-described feeling of impending doom. Having overcome the initial anxiety, having triumphed over our inner tyrants (or guides, depending
on the character of the primary objects, their parents), we go through a short euphoric phase, celebrating their rediscovered individuation and separation.
Reinvigorated, we feel ready to court and woo prospective mates. But our conflicts are never really put to rest. They merely lie
dormant. Married life is a terrifying rite of passage. Many react to it by limiting themselves to familiar, knee-jerk behavior patterns and
reactions and by ignoring or dimming their true emotions. Gradually, these marriages are hollowed out and wither. Some seek solace in resorting
to other frames of reference - the terra cognita of one s neighbourhood, country, language, race, culture, language, background, profession, social stratum,
or education. Belonging to these groups imbues them with feelings of security and firmness. Many combine both solutions. More than 80% of
marriages take place among members of the same social class, profession, race, creed and breed. This is not a chance statistic. It
reflects choices, conscious and (more often) unconscious. The next anti-climatic dysphoric phase transpires when our attempts to secure (the consent of) a
mate are met with success. Daydreaming is easier and more gratifying than the dreariness of realized goals. Mundane routine is the enemy
of love and of optimism. Where dreams end, harsh reality intrudes with its uncompromising demands. Securing the consent of one s future
spouse forces one to tread an irreversible and increasingly challenging path. One s imminent marriage requires not only emotional investment -
