much easier. but here i was, suffering big time from depression and anxiety and woefully trying to make a show
of helping my relatives. that was a joke - i couldn t even help myself. jeremy had his workload trebled
as he now not only had me to deal with, but the sorting out and visiting to do! each evening
he was darting all over belfast or driving me to londonderry to visit my mum. part of me watched the
scene unfolding in front of me as if it was a play. the play was a tragedy in which i
was one of the characters. the script writer obviously wanted me, for some unknown reason, to be the central character.
i wondered if the central character in this play was sane. certainly there would be no standing ovation. how are
you? said the in-laws and mohure. fine says i. are you sure, you look very tired. no, i m ok,
honestly. and so the play of few words continued. the reality was somewhat contrary. i was bobbing relentlessly up and
down like a small boat on a choppy sea. i was emotionally adrift somewhere on that choppy sea - watery
brain, decidedly detached from my head, was swimming around in my skull. would i ever be normal? the mask i
wore was wearing me out. pretending to the outside world was one more difficult aspect of what was happening. i
could only be something of myself with jeremy and one or two close friends. i was only completely and entirely
myself with myself. i didn t much like myself and i was also afraid of myself. basically i was scared
to admit my feelings to anyone totally. i think my gp had a good idea but i didn t even
admit all my fears to her. it was all much too undignified and shameful. the return to work was sitting
right in front of me on the horizon, it is sickening, noxious even, but dark clouds were also forming across
that horizon. that is, even darker clouds than before. i frequently caught jeremy looking at me with a worried frown.
the ensuing conversation was repeated frequently. what can i do to help? jeremy would say. nothing, i don t know
would be my answer. are you sure you feel ready and able to go back to work? he said often.
yep, i ll be fine. mentally i would be thinking, for god s sake heather, get a grip. unfortunately all
the rationalising in the world didn t do any good. i remained a mess. the waiting for word from the
public prosecution service continued. the first day back at school at the beginning of the new school year wasn t
actually in the school building, but in a local hotel. it was designed to be a pleasant return to work
- scones with coffee at break time and a nice lunch helped (or should have helped) soften the blow. i
drove to the hotel venue in a daze. nothing new there then. my sons were and remain appalled at my
driving skills - or lack of them. when they are in belfast if i drive them anywhere, it is to
a constant chorus of watch out! mum. i tell myself it is just a mohure/son thing. women drivers and all
that malarkey. i was almost overcome with shyness and awkwardness while greeting colleagues, some of whom i hadn t seen
for almost five months. although i had returned at the very end of the summer term i had kept myself
well out of the way. everyone was supportive and friendly, chirpy even. they were probably as uncomfortable as i was
- some admitted to me at a later date that they were unsure what to say! they didn t want
to talk about the allegation in case they upset me and they didn t want to not talk about the
allegation in case that upset me more. mostly, we talked about very little. the weather and diets featured a fair
bit in our conversations. before the start of the baker day i puffed away outside at cigarette after cigarette attempting
to feel more at ease. cigarettes are extremely bad for your health and i hate to say it, but to
my mind there is no disputing it, occasions such as this call for a ciggy to help calm eroded and
fraught nerves! i stood up early in the proceedings, in front of the entire staff and thanked them for their
support, their flowers, their cards. i had a list of key words written on a card in front of me,
just in case i forgot what i was going to say. i was aware of my voice reverberating all over
the room, i felt hollow, diffident and uncertain. i managed to drift uncertainly through the day, completely unaware of what
was going on around me or the topics discussed and went home feeling drained and washed out. in a way
though, i had some sense of accomplishment - i had made it through the day. i had no idea that
things would disintegrate in the following days. the hotel as a venue had acted in ways as a protective covering
for what was to come. a bit like a baked alaska pudding - a protective outer shell, slightly burnt on
top and melting on the inside. all it would take was for someone to take a bite . the next
few days were chock a block with training for the new teachers. i was surrounded by notes and lists (i
m good at lists). i went through the motions of delivering my power point presentations. most of the time, i
was confused. i lacked enthusiasm - and not intentionally. i remember asking one of the teachers if i was coming
across ok. my head was so fuzzy. my surroundings felt alien to me, i couldn t find anything and i
struggled from hour to hour, permanently one step away from breaking down in tears. permanently the old lump in
