felt, the ship becoming like an ice-box. old andy was warmly covered, for he was asleep in his bunk, having
fallen into a slumber after being lashed in. the noise of the storm did not awaken him, since he was
somewhat stupid from a fever into which his wound had thrown him. all that could be done was to wait
and hope. no human force could prevail over the storm. bracing themselves against whatever offered, and clinging by their hands
to projections, the adventurers in the cabin expected every moment to be their last. washington, who had gone out to
the engine room, came hurrying back. "look, here, perfessor," he said, sticking his head in the dining cabin door, "de
gas machine hab stopped circulatin ." "did you shut off the power?" "no, sah! i ain t done gone and
shut off no power!" making his way as best he could while the ship pitched and tossed, amos henderson reached
the engine room. he looked at the gas generator. the power was turned on full, but the apparatus was not
working. "that is strange," he remarked. "i wonder--" then he hurried forward to the conning tower. as he did so
the ship was whirled quickly around several times, and the sudden motion threw the old man down, his head striking
on the edge of one of the bunks. he lay white and still. "he s killed!" cried washington. "we are
in a whirlwind!" yelled bill at the same instant. "we ll be sucked up to the sky!" the airship was
swinging around and around as if in the grasp of some giant. the craft was really caught in the centre
of a whirlwind, which spun it around like a top. every one felt sick and dizzy from the queer motion.
"we must see to the professor!" said jack, "washington, get some of the remedy you used before. i think he
has only fainted." at this moment the old inventor opened his eyes. "what happened?" he asked feebly. "please give me
some water. i am all right." they brought him a drink, and he managed to sip a little of it.
then he attempted to sit up. but the effort was too much for him. "what--what is the matter?" he asked.
"i feel so strange. i am dizzy. has anything happened?" "somebody am a-playin ring around de rosy wid dis airship!"
exclaimed washington, "my head am a-swimmin so i can t stand." "i must get to the conning tower!" muttered the
old inventor. "i must get there." "let me go, you can never make it," said jack. "what is it you
want to see?" "look at the deflecting needle!" was the answer. "see how the needle points and come back and
tell me! it may be we are at the north pole!" jack started forward, crawling on his hands and knees.
indeed, this was the only way he could advance. the professor watched him with anxious eyes. the ship spun around
even faster. old andy had awakened and was gazing around with fear-stricken eyes. then, just as jack reached the door
of the conning tower, and started inside, the monarch gave a violent motion. she seemed to stop for a moment,
and then, with a great lurch, turned completely over, throwing the occupants to the ceiling. then she plunged straight down
to the earth, through the centre of the whirlwind, like an arrow falling! for an instant the utmost confusion reigned.
the adventurers fell in a heap on the ceiling that, for the time being, became the floor. then, as the
ship righted herself, they fell back again to the floor. the cords that bound andy to his bunk broke, and
he toppled with the rest. "repel the enemy!" yelled the old hunter, thinking in his delirium that the ship was
again attacked. "we are lost!" cried the professor, as he felt the monarch plunging down. for a hundred feet or
more the ship shot earthward bow first, so that the adventurers all slid down to that end. it was well
that everything, including the gasolene tanks, had been lashed fast, or there would have been a great jumble inside the
craft. then, almost as suddenly as the ship had started to fall, it ceased, and rode on an even keel,
righting and floating easily in the air. the wind no longer blew with the circular motion, the whirling having come
to an end. but the blinding snow continued. jack staggered from the conning tower, where he had gone to look
at the deflecting compass. "what has happened?" he cried, "no one knows," answered professor henderson. "we are in dire straits.
did you look at the needle, jack?" "i did." "what did it show?" "the needle was straight up and down!"
"i knew it!" cried the old inventor. "i said we would reach the pole, and we have!" "it ain t
goin to do us a heab sight ob good," said washington. "i d rather hab a good barber pole any
day! no north poles fo me!" "hush, washington!" exclaimed mr. henderson. "this is no time to joke. you are sure
you made no mistake, jack?" "i am sure, sir." "i thought we were at the pole when i saw that
the gas engine had stopped," went on the professor. "the attraction of the earth-magnets at the pole exerted such a
strong influence on the iron and steel that the gas machine could not work. at last i have reached the
goal of my ambitions!" the ship remained stationary for several minutes. those aboard began to have hopes. the snow storm
was still as fierce as ever, but that was all the manifestation of the elements. "i want to take a
look at the needle," said the professor. "i feel all right now; i was only a little faint from my
fall. how are you, andy?" "i feel much better," replied the hunter, whose delirium had somewhat left him. "my arm
is sore, that s all. but why have you all got your furs on?" "we had to turn off
