base, both stated and implicit. then there are social and psychological issues concerning the interactions among groups of people who
are confined in an alien environment for a prolonged period. all of these factors interact with the more common issues
of designing a habitat for working, eating, socializing and sleeping resulting in a design problem of considerable complexity. this paper
will focus for its example on the specific project of developing a computer system for lunar habitat design. a primary
concern will be to fashion the system so that it supports the intuitive powers of human designers. that is, the
system will not be intended to replace the human designer, as has been the goal in traditional artificial intelligence and
expert systems. at the same time, it should not simply provide computational power that is tangential to the process of
design. rather, the computer system should simultaneously aid the designer to manage the complexity of the project and to articulate
his or her intuitions about the emerging design. in keeping with the balance called for by alexander, the computer should
give free reign to the human designer s intuitive powers even while it helps to document the central issues and
decisions of the design process so they are rendered publicly available. rittel: tackling wicked problems through argumentation when horst rittel
declared in his dilemmas in a general theory of planning that "planning problems are inherently wicked," he thereby spelled out
that characteristic of planning and design tasks that has subsequently become the central source of perplexity in trying to imagine
a computer system that can effectively support the challenging aspects of design. for, computer programs have traditionally been devised in
accordance with the classical paradigm of "tame" science and engineering problems precisely the paradigm that rittel argued is not applicable
to the problems of open societal systems with which planners and designers are generally concerned. this paradigm assumes that a
problem can first be formulated in a clear, unambiguous and exhaustive manner. then, based on such a problem statement, all
possible solutions can be evaluated to see which are optimal solutions to the problem. computer programs based on this paradigm
try to represent in advance the space of problems and solutions for a well-defined type of design problem in an
explicit and exhaustive manner. their contribution to solving a problem is to take a complete statement of the problem as
input and to compute the optimal solution to it by means of a search through the set of all possible
solutions. rittel claimed that the wicked problems of planning could not be thoroughly understood in the first place unless one
already had ideas for solving them. suppose, for instance, that you are asked to plan a mission to the moon
for four astronauts for a period of 45 days. according to nasa, the purpose of the mission is to explore
long-term stays for crews of international backgrounds and mixed gender; there is to be some scientific research and some site
work to prepare for future moon bases. in thinking about the design of the lunar habitat for this mission, you
might begin to discuss the importance of privacy issues with other people on your design team. you might feel that
not only was some physical privacy needed for cultural reasons, but psychologically there would be a need to structure a
careful mix of public and private spaces and opportunities. these privacy issues might become paramount to your design even though
they had not been included in the original problem statement. in this way, the set of issues to be investigated
and concerns to be balanced would emerge and evolve as the planning process took place. in opposition to the then
dominant methods of operations research which tried to compute optimal solutions from static and well-defined problem statements, rittel called for
a model of planning as "an argumentative process in the course of which an image of the problem and of
the solution emerges gradually among the participants, as a product of incessant judgment, subiected to critical argument." (ibid, p.13) this
is a very different model of the profession. in the operations research approach, it was assumed that problems could be
formulated up front and that the dimensions of possible solutions could, at least in principle, also be enumerated once and
for all. solving a planning or design problem then consisted in making that combination of choices among the given options
that maximized some objective quantitative measures of the criteria specified in the problem statement. in no sense should the value
of a solution be determined by the process of its discovery or by the individuals involved in formulating it. this
was a model made for computerization. in fact, one might suspect that this model was influenced by the computer model
in the first place: only those elements were accepted as scientific and objective which could be easily reduced to algorithmic
processes. by contrast, rittel rejected the notion that even the underlying concepts in terms of which a problem or its
solution could be formulated were objective in this sense. the language used in real, significant planning processes is itself the
result of discussion and debate among various parties, each of whom uses subjective judgments to criticize hidden assumptions and to
reconstrue implicit meanings of terms. no one view has a necessary priority; every view must be capable of standing up
to critique by opposing views. solutions arise through this process of critique, in which new issues and possibilities can arise
at any moment and new criteria can be introduced or old concerns reinterpreted. rather than worshipping some theoretical notion of
objectivity, rittel s approach recognizes that people s perspectives on problems are based in subjective conditions such as their individual
value systems and political commitments or their personal roles vis a vis the proposed solutions: for wicked planning problems, there
are no true or false answers. normally, many parties are equally equipped, interested and or entitled to judge the solutions,
although none has the power to set formal decision rules to determine correctness. their judgments are likely to differ
