were unsuitable and distasteful to them by reason of age, temper, or other incompatibility? this was the signal for the
most frightful scene of disorder ever witnessed in the house; for all peeresses with husbands younger than themselves screamed on
one side, and the young peeresses on the other. after a little quiet had been obtained, lady carlyon was heard
again, and accused the duchess of dunstanburgh of being herself the sole cause of the insurrection. "it is time," she
said, "to use plainness of speech. let us recognise the truth that a young man cannot but abhor and loathe
so unnatural a union as that of twenty years with forty, fifty, sixty. for my own part, i do not
wonder that a man so high-spirited as lord chester should have been driven to madness. all in this house know
well without any pretences as to the honour of peeresses, that a majority in favour of the duchess was certain.
can any one believe that the judgment of the house would have been given for the happiness of the young
man? can any one believe that he could have contemplated the proposed union without repugnance? we know well what the
end of the rising may be; and of this am i well assured, that the blood of this unhappy boy,
and the blood of all those who perish with him, are upon the head of the duchess of dunstanburgh." then
began another terrible scene, in which all the invective, the recrimination, the accusations, the insinuations, of which the language is
capable, seemed gathered together and hurled at each other: there was no longer a government and an opposition; there was
the wrath of the young, who had seen, or looked to see, the men they might have loved torn from
them by the old; there was the fury of the old, calling upon religion, law, piety, and order. constance withdrew
in the height of the battle, having said all she had to say. it was a clear and bright morning;
the sun was already rising; there were little groups of women hanging about the lobbies still, waiting for news. one
of them stepped forward and saluted constance. she was a young journalist of great promise, and had often written leaders
at constance S suggestion. "has your ladyship any more news?" she asked. "i know nothing but what i have heard
from . . . from the duchess." it was by an effort that constance pronounced her name. "i know no
more." "we have heard more," the journalist went on. "we have heard from norfolk, by a girl who galloped headlong
into town with the intelligence, and is now at the war office, that, yesterday morning at nine o clock, lord
chester rode out of his park, followed by his army, carrying banners, and armed with guns, pikes, and swords. they
are said to number at present some two or three hundred only." constance was too weary and worn with the
night s excitement to receive this dreadful news. she burst into passionate tears. "edward," she cried, "you rush upon certain
death!" then she recovered herself. "stay! let me think. we must do something to allay the excitement. the government will
issue orders to keep the men at home -- that is their first thought. we must do more: we must
agitate for a reform. there is one concession that must be made. go at once and write the strongest leader
you ever wrote in all your life: treat the rebellion as of the slightest possible importance; do not weigh heavily
upon the unhappy chief; talk as little as possible about misguided lads; say that, without doubt, the men will disperse;
urge an amnesty; and then strike boldly and unmistakably for the great grievance of men and women both. raise the
cry of "the young for the young! and keep harping on this theme from day to day." it was, however,
too late for newspaper articles: a wild excitement ran through the streets of london; the men were kept indoors; workmen
who had to go abroad were ordered not to stop on their way, not to speak with each other, not
to buy newspapers. special constables were sworn in by the hundred. later on, when it became known that the insurgent
forces were really on their southward march, a proclamation was issued, ordering a general day of humiliation, with services in
all the churches, and prayers for the safety of religion and the realm, the archbishop of canterbury herself performed the
service at westminster abbey, and the bishop of london at st. paul s. -- -- meantime, spite of law and
orders, the country-people flocked from all sides to see the gallant show of lord chester s little army. captain dunquerque
led the van, which consisted of fifty stalwart keepers. at the head of the main body rode the chief, clad
in scarlet, with glittering helmet; with him were the officers of his staff, also gallantly dressed and splendidly mounted. next
came, marching in fours, his army of three hundred sturdy countrymen, armed with rifle and bayonet; after them marched the
younger men, some mere lads, carrying guns of all descriptions, pikes, and even sticks, -- not one among these that
did not carry a cockade: their banner, borne by two of the strongest, was of red silk, with the words,
"we will be free!" an immense crowd of women looked on as they started: some of them cursed and screamed;
but the girls laughed. then other men of the villages broke away from their wives and sisters, and marched beside
the soldiers, trying to keep in step, snatching their cockades, and shouting with them. last of all came a little
band of twenty-five, mounted, who served to keep the crowd from pressing too closely, and guarded a carriage and four,
in which were the bishop, the professor, and the two girls. they sat up to their knees in scarlet cockades
and rosettes, which the girls were making up and the professor was distributing. in this order they marched. after
