dts. please!" sometimes wiley saw things that weren t there. maybe these were just hallucinations. he blinked a couple times
and shook his head but the machines refused to disappear, they just stood right where they were. his dogs whined,
letting him know they saw what he saw. wiley s arms took to shaking and the liquor case slipped from
his hands. when it hit the floor the bottles shattered and old bushmills, maybe a hundred bucks worth, spilled across
the linoleum tile. he caught the sharp smell of the liquor puddled at his feet but was too busy looking
outside to glance down. the machines canopies opened and what he saw nearly stopped his heart. two eerie-looking lizard-birds leered
out at him, tilting their heads like inquisitive cockatoos. "yeah," he murmured, "this s gotta be the dts." he blinked
a couple of times more but they wouldn t go away. and to top it off, they started talking, jabbering
something back and forth, sounding like two crows cackling. it kinda sounded like they were laughing, too. watching their mouths
full of dagger-teeth, wiley felt kinda woozy. "oh, sweet jesus," he moaned, dropping to his knees in the spilt liquor
and clasping his hands together to pray. "dear god, i ll never knock over another liquor store, i swear. and
i won t never touch a drop again." that last bit was a pretty steep price but he figured he
was bargaining for his life. despite his penitence, the creatures didn t leave. they dismounted their machines and came to
stand just outside the busted front windows, looking at him and cackling a blue streak. they seemed pretty amused by
the situation and were sizing him up for something. just what, wiley wasn t sure. one of the pit bulls
growled, giving wiley an idea. the creatures were just a few feet from the dogs. "kill, boys!" he shouted, turning
to crawl behind an aisle of liquor bottles. he heard the dogs claw their way out the window, snarling as
they attacked, and he heard the creatures set up an awful hissing and screeching as the dogs tore into them.
it sounded like the dogs might make short work of em but wiley was too scared to watch. he crawled
away on hands and knees to hide in the stock room. kit was standing at the back door of the
kitchen watching the parasaurolophus family eat a fresh bale of hay. "your garden grows some good veggies, kit," he said.
"sweetest carrot i ever tasted." "we ve got plenty of fertilizer, with six hundred head of cattle." he crunched slower,
thinking maybe the carrot needed another washing. kit went to the stove and adjusted the flame under the pot of
boiling potatoes. he asked her, "what will you do when this is all over?" she turned and looked at him
dubiously. "you mean if i survive?" "sure. assuming we find a way out of this, what ll you do? you
said you wanted to study paleontology at bozeman. sounds like a good career choice, all things considered. ought to be
quite a demand for people who know their dinosaurs." "i suppose so," she replied. "i m afraid to think about
the future." "things look pretty grim right now, i ll admit. but take wolves as an example. they were wiped
out around here, but now they re making a comeback. things can change." "it s not the same. this time
dinosaurs are making the comeback and people are disappearing." "still," he said. "yesterday those parasaurolophuses were fossils. today they re
animals that you re feeding hay to. it s getting hard to tell the difference between paleontology and wildlife biology.
your interests and mine might... come together someday." she looked at him thoughtfully for a moment, and then gave him
a thin smile, the best he d seen in a while. then another thought struck her and she turned toward
the living room door. "hey, what s up with doctor o?" "i don t know," said chase. "still in the
living room with our... guest, i suppose." kit went into the living room and he followed-and they both froze. dr.
ogilvey sat on the fireplace hearth with one of kit s school textbooks open on his lap. the creature was
standing right over him. chase s first thought was to shout a warning but the words froze in his throat.
the animal s fangs were just inches from ogilvey s head. there was no way the old man could react
in time to get away. then chase saw something even more astonishing. ogilvey, oblivious to danger, pointed to a picture
in the book and looked straight into the creature s face. "that s a tree," he said. then, moving his
finger on the book, "that s the sky." "doctor of" kit barely squeaked. "what are you doing?" the paleontologist turned
and gazed blankly at their concerned faces. "just teaching him some of our words." the creature regarded them calmly and
ogilvey jerked a thumb at it. "he catches on very quickly." the captive reached out its manacled hands, pointed a
claw at the picture and did its best to mimic ogilvey s words. "treeee," it repeated. "skaaeee." "very good," responded
ogilvey. "tree. sky." "but, but," kit gasped, "are you sure it s safe to get so close?" ogilvey glanced from
her to the beast and back. "no, but he certainly seems friendly enough. his name is gar." setting the book
on the hearth, ogilvey stood and made formal introductions. "gar, meet kit." he indicated by a gesture that the latter
name belonged to her. the creature bobbed its head and made its best effort to repeat her name. "kee-ta." kit
hesitated a moment, flabbergasted, and then replied, "gar. pleased to meet you." ogilvey smiled congenially at the creature. "and that
s chase, standing behind her." "chay-suh," said gar, head-bobbing at him. chase bobbed back involuntarily and, feeling awkward at his
apish replay of the creature s pulled his patrol car up in front of wiley s pickup truck. he
