materials of his work, to the product as an immediate use value and to himself and his community. these important
themes must now be developed. history has teleological meaning but only for us from our retro-perspective, not mystically in itself.
the production of history has, according to marx, been largely a byproduct of the reproduction of given situations through the
production of use-value. given any agricultural society, the goal of production in that society was self-perpetuation of the community through
reproduction of the race and of everyday life. but the natural attempt to maintain the status quo, particularly in the
more advanced social forms, can itself force change; the fates of wars of defense have resulted in the rise and
fall of untold numbers of nations. one of marx s favorite examples is the timely one of population expansion. it
is a common observation in anthropology that certain tribal structures can perpetuate themselves indefinitely and self-sufficiently given a constant population
and no external interference. but suppose that the attempt to reproduce the population becomes too successful. then the social relations,
division of labor or form of production would be forced to change or die. the details of a society s
atemporal structure can thereby become central to the dialectic of its historical development. for instance, where each individual is supposed
to possess so many acres of land, the mere increase in population constitutes an obstacle. if this is to be
overcome, colonization will develop and this necessitates wars of conquest. this leads to slavery, etc. also, e.g., the enlargement of
the ager publicus, and hence to the rise of the patricians, who represent the community, etc. thus the preservation of
the old community implies the destruction of the conditions upon which it rests, and turns into its opposite. the conservative
impulse can remain at the base of truly revolutionary developments at least within agricultural society. when the relations of production
change in accordance with a modified mode of production, there is not merely a change in relations between unchanged people;
people s very natures are transformed. "the act of reproduction itself changes not only the objective conditions e.g. transforming village
into town, the wilderness into agricultural clearings, etc. but the producers change with it, by the emergence of new qualities,
by transforming and developing themselves in production, forming new powers and new conceptions. new modes of intercourse, new needs, and
new language." totally historical and social character. both a presupposition and a condition of history, language is in turn modified
by new social development. a person s language is both a prerequisite and an expression of his membership in a
community: "as regards the individual, it is clear, e.g., that he relates even to language itself as his own only
as the natural member of a human community. language as the product of an individual is an absurdity. but so
also is property." [84] the point of marx s references to language is that property has the same characteristics which
clearly belong to language. an isolated individual could farm a plot of land and possess tools assuming he had been
trained in farming and in the construction and use of tools but we would not call the land and tools
his property. property is a social (legal, interpersonal) relationship defined by the exclusion of other persons from certain rights. originally,
proprietary claims took place between tribes, neighboring communities who claimed areas of land or natural resources as their property to
the exclusion of other tribes. the tribal members shared the fruits of such property, which they owned as members of
the community. they may have possessed homes, clothing and such individually, but the land, tools, weapons, aqueducts, seeds and technical
knowledge were communal property. in later social systems, such as the roman empire, communal property was privately possessed to be
a roman citizen and to possess roman land were synonymous or some combination of private and public lands was established.
property refers, as the word etymologically suggests, not only to what one (legally) owns, but to what is (essentially) one
s own, what is "proper" to oneself. throughout precapitalist history, people were defined physically and mentally, objectively and subjectively, economically
and socially by their membership in a community. marx thus concludes, "property therefore means belonging to a clan (community) (having
one s subjective/objective existence in it); and by means of the relation of this community to the land and soil,
(relating) to the earth as the individual s body, there occurs the relationship of the individual to the land and
soil for the earth is at the same time raw material, tool and fruit as to a presupposition belonging to
his individuality, as its modes of his presence. we reduce this property to the relation to the conditions productionif people
are socially defined, then society in turn can be viewed in terms of the social relations which are primarily structured
according to the mode of production of the producing subjects. the primary relationship is that of work: productive people relating
to nature. work is socially mediated people produce as members of communities and the structure of the communities is reciprocally
conditioned by the mode of production. property, too, is an expression of the work relationship, always defined historically in relation
to the prevailing mode of production. the first half of marx s historical considerations accordingly conclude that "property in its
asiatic, slavonic, ancient classical and germanic forms therefore originally signifies a relation of the working (producing) or self-reproducing subject to
the conditions of his production or reproduction as his own. hence, according to the conditions of this production, property will
take different forms." the result that marx arrived at through analysis of capitalist relations in the manuscripts that property is
historically-specifically defined, expressing the prevailing mode of production is here reached through a study of pre-capitalist history. the new approach
sheds fresh light. not only is the illusory atemporal aura surrounding bourgeois private property discarded in showing the relation of
private property to commodity production in particular, but in drawing this relationship, the unique character of private property is
