It seemed to her that the words that she had
spoken to her husband, and had continually repeated in her
imagination, she had said to everyone, and everyone had heard
them. She could not bring herself to look those of
her own household in the face. She could not bring
herself to call her maid, and still less go downstairs
and see her son and his governess. The maid, who
had been listening at her door for a long while,
came into her room of her own accord. Anna glanced
inquiringly into her face, and blushed with a scared look.
The maid begged her pardon for coming in, saying that
she had fancied the bell rang. She brought her clothes
and a note. The note was from Betsy. Betsy reminded
her that Liza Merkalova and Baroness Shtoltz were coming to
play croquet with her that morning with their adorers, Kaluzhsky
and old Stremov. Come, if only as a study in
morals. I shall expect you, she finished. Anna read the
note and heaved a deep sigh. Nothing, I need nothing,
she said to Annushka, who was rearranging the bottles and
brushes on the dressing 629 of 1759 Anna Karenina table.
You can go. I ll dress at once and come
down. I need nothing. Annushka went out, but Anna did
not begin dressing, and sat in the same position, her
head and hands hanging listlessly, and every now and then
she shivered all over, seemed as though she would make
some gesture, utter some word, and sank back into lifelessness
again. She repeated continually, My God! my God! But neither
God nor my had any meaning to her. The idea
of seeking help in her difficulty in religion was as
remote from her as seeking help from Alexey Alexandrovitch himself,
although she had never had doubts of the faith in
which she had been brought up. She knew that the
support of religion was possible only upon condition of renouncing
what made up for her the whole meaning of life.
She was not simply miserable, she began to feel alarm
at the new spiritual condition, never experienced before, in which
she found herself. She felt as though everything were beginning
to be double in her soul, just as objects sometimes
appear double to over-tired eyes. She hardly knew at times
what it was she feared, and what she hoped for.
Whether she feared or desired what had happened, or what
was going to happen, and exactly what she longed for,
she could not have said. 630 of 1759 Anna Karenina
Ah, what am I doing! she said to herself, feeling
a sudden thrill of pain in both sides of her
head. When she came to herself, she saw that she
was holding her hair in both hands, each side of
her temples, and pulling it. She jumped up, and began
walking about. The coffee is ready, and mademoiselle and Seryozha
are waiting, said Annushka, coming back again and finding Anna
in the same position. Seryozha? what about Seryozha? Anna asked,
with sudden eagerness, recollecting her son s existence for the
first time that morning. He s been naughty, I think,
answered Annushka with a smile. In what way? Some peaches
were lying on the table in the corner room. I
think he slipped in and ate one of them
