chap who knows he s going to have collywobbles as soon as he gets out into the open. but that
isn t a bit what i mean. they re all wrong about it, because they make it turn on killing,
and not on your chance of being killed. that--when you realize it--well, it s like the thing you told me
about that you said you thought must be god because it s so real. i didn t understand it then,
but i do now. you re bang up against reality--you re going clean into it--and the sense of it s
exquisite. of course, while one half of you is feeling like that, the other half is fighting to kill and
doing its best to keep on this side reality. but i ve been near enough to the other side to
know. and i wish michael s friend would come out and see what it s like for himself. or, better
still, mick. he d write a poem about it that would make you sit up. it s a sin that
i should be getting all this splendid stuff when i can t do anything with it. love to all of
them and to your darling self.--always your loving,the gardener had gone to the war, and veronica was in the garden,
weeding the delphinium border. it was sunday afternoon and she was alone there. anthony was digging in the kitchen garden,
and frances was with him, gathering green peas and fruit for the hospital. every now and then she came through
the open door on to the flagged path of the upper terrace with the piled up baskets in her arms,
and she smiled and nodded to veronica. it was quiet in the garden, so that, when her moment came, veronica
could time it by the striking of the clock heard through the open doorway of the house: four strokes; and
the half-hour; and then, almost on the stroke, her rush of pure, mysterious happiness. up till then she had been
only tranquil; and her tranquillity made each small act exquisite and delightful, as her fingers tugged at the weeds, and
shook the earth from their weak roots, and the palms of her hand smoothed over the places where they had
been. she thought of old jean and suzanne, planting flowers in the garden at renton, and of that tranquillity of
theirs that was the saddest thing she had ever seen. and her happiness had come, almost on the stroke of
the half-hour, not out of herself or out of her thoughts, but mysteriously and from somewhere a long way off.
she turned to nod and smile at frances who was coming through the door with her basket, and it was
then that she saw nicholas. he stood on something that looked like a low wall, raised between her and the
ash-tree; he stood motionless, as if arrested in the act of looking back to see if she were following him.
his eyes shone, vivid and blue, as they always shone when he was happy. he smiled at her, but with
no movement of his mouth. he shouted to her, but with no sound. everything was still; her body and her
soul were still; her heart was still; it beat steadily. she had started forwards to go to him when the
tree thrust itself between them, and he was gone. and frances was still coming through the door as veronica had
seen her when she turned. she was calling to her to come in out of the sun. the young men
had gone--morton ellis, who had said he was damned if he d fight for his country; and austin mitchell who
had said he hadn t got a country; and monier-owen, who had said that england was not a country you
could fight for. george wadham had gone long ago. that, michael said, was to be expected. even a weak gust
could sweep young wadham off his feet--and he had been fairly carried away. he could no more resist the vortex
of the war than he could resist the vortex of the arts. michael had two pitiful memories of the boy:
one of young wadham swaggering into stephen s room in uniform (the first time he had it on), flushed and
pleased with himself and talking excitedly about the "great game"; and one of young wadham returned from the front, mature
and hard, not talking about the "great game" at all, and wincing palpably when other people talked; a young wadham
who, they said, ought to be arrested under the defence of the realm act as a quencher of war-enthusiasms. the
others had gone later, one by one, each with his own gesture: mitchell and monier-owen when stephen went; ellis the
day after stephen s death. it had taken stephen s death to draw him. only michael remained. he told them
they were mistaken if they thought their going would inspire him to follow them. it, and stephen s death, merely
intensified the bitterness he felt towards the war. he was more than ever determined to keep himself pure from it,
consecrated to his forlorn hope. if they fell back, all the more reason why be should go on. and, while
he waited for the moment of vision, he continued stephen s work on the green review. stephen had left it
to him when he went out. michael tried to be faithful to the tradition he thus inherited; but gradually stephen
s spirit disappeared from the review and its place was taken by the clear, hard, unbreakable thing that was michael
s mind. and michael knew that he was beginning to make himself felt. but stephen s staff, such as it
was, and nearly all his contributors had gone to the war, one after another, and michael found himself taking all
their places. he began to feel a strain, which he took to be the strain of overwork, and he went
down to renton to recover. that was on the tuesday that followed veronica s sunday. he thought that down
