and thy baubles, cozening the last few shillings from the pouches of dying men. a fig for thy curse! bide here, if you will take my rede, for
we will make england too hot for such as you, when master wicliff has the ordering of it. thou vile thief!" it is you, and such as you,
who bring an evil name upon the many churchmen who lead a pure and a holy life. thou outside the door of heaven! art more like to be
inside the door of hell." at this crowning insult the sompnour, with a face ashen with rage, raised up a quivering hand and began pouring latin imprecations upon
the angry alderman. the latter, however, was not a man to be quelled by words, for he caught up his ell- measure sword-sheath and belabored the cursing clerk
with it. the latter, unable to escape from the shower of blows, set spurs to his mule and rode for his life, with his enemy thundering behind him.
at sight of his master s sudden departure, the varlet watkin set off after him, with the pack-mule beside him, so that the four clattered away down the
road together, until they swept round a curve and their babble was but a drone in the distance. sir nigel and alleyne gazed in astonishment at one another,
while ford burst out a-laughing. "pardieu!" said the knight, "this david micheldene must be one of those lollards about whom father christopher of the priory had so much
to say. yet he seemed to be no bad man from what i have seen of him." "i have heard that wicliff hath many followers in norwich," answered
alleyne. "by st. paul! i have no great love for them," quoth sir nigel. "i am a man who am slow to change; and, if you take away
from me the faith that i have been taught, it would be long ere i could learn one to set in its place. it is but a chip
here and a chip there, yet it may bring the tree down in time. yet, on the other hand, i cannot but think it shame that a man
should turn god s mercy on and off, as a cellarman doth wine with a spigot." "nor is it," said alleyne, "part of the teachings of that mother
church of which he had so much to say. there was sooth in what the alderman said of it." "then, by st. paul! they may settle it betwixt
them," quoth sir nigel. "for me, i serve god, the king and my lady; and so long as i can keep the path of honor i am well
content. my creed shall ever be that of chandos: " fais ce que dois--adviegne que peut, c est commande au chevalier. " after passing cahors, the party branched
away from the main road, and leaving the river to the north of them, followed a smaller track which wound over a vast and desolate plain. this path
led them amid marshes and woods, until it brought them out into a glade with a broad stream swirling swiftly down the centre of it. through this the
horses splashed their way, and on the farther shore sir nigel announced to them that they were now within the borders of the land of france. for some
miles they still followed the same lonely track, which led them through a dense wood, and then widening out, curved down to an open rolling country, such as
they had traversed between aiguillon and cahors. if it were grim and desolate upon the english border, however, what can describe the hideous barrenness of this ten times
harried tract of france? the whole face of the country was scarred and disfigured, mottled over with the black blotches of burned farm-steadings, and the gray, gaunt gable-ends
of what had been chateaux. broken fences, crumbling walls, vineyards littered with stones, the shattered arches of bridges--look where you might, the signs of ruin and rapine met
the eye. here and there only, on the farthest sky-line, the gnarled turrets of a castle, or the graceful pinnacles of church or of monastery showed where the
forces of the sword or of the spirit had preserved some small islet of security in this universal flood of misery. moodily and in silence the little party
rode along the narrow and irregular track, their hearts weighed down by this far-stretching land of despair. it was indeed a stricken and a blighted country, and a
man might have ridden from auvergne in the north to the marches of foix, nor ever seen a smiling village or a thriving homestead. from time to time
as they advanced they saw strange lean figures scraping and scratching amid the weeds and thistles, who, on sight of the band of horsemen, threw up their arms
and dived in among the brushwood, as shy and as swift as wild animals. more than once, however, they came on families by the wayside, who were too
weak from hunger and disease to fly, so that they could but sit like hares on a tussock, with panting chests and terror in their eyes. so
