to do, kelso. i mean, you ve dropped a bombshell in my lap and now i m just supposed to
sit here and wait for you to waste away. i don t know how to handle that, kelso, i really
don t." ashleigh s tears appeared in pools under her eyes. kelso reached out his hand and grabbed ashleigh s.
"its okay, ash. i m going to be fine." "don t lie to me." "i m not. this has happened
before. i just get a little overworked and tend to get panicked and do things like this. don t worry
about this," kelso sald. "you can t tell me not to worry, kelso. i m a worrier. i m going
to worry whether you like it or not," ashleigh sald. kelso guffawed. "that s what i love about you. you
don t take anything for granted." "i try not to. i in going to worry and i m going to
cry, so you just have to get used to it," ashleigh sald. she took the back of her hand and
wiped the streaks of tears on her face. "i have no problem with that." kelso looked at ashleigh straight in
the eye. "i do have a problem with you sitting in a chair when there is a perfectly open spot
right next to me on the bed." ashleigh got out of the chair and sat on the bed where kelso
had put his hand. "so, what do we do now?" ashleigh asked. "well, i didn t really make a list,"
kelso joked. ashleigh rolled her eyes. "my friends are outside. we could invite them in," ashleigh suggested. she got up
from the bed, but kelso pulled her back down. "no, not yet. i want to talk to you for a
bit." "what do you want to talk about?" kelso took a deep breath. "i know that we haven t had
that much time together, but i do know that i haven t felt this way about anybody else that i
ve been with. you re sweet and caring and you always want to please people." kelso cleared his throat. "i
love you, ashleigh." he reached over to the table sitting next to him and handed her a small box. "open
it." she did. inside was a solitaire triad diamond. "i didn t know when the right time would be, but
i think now is as good a time as ever. ashleigh, will you marry me?" ashleigh swallowed the lump in
her throat. her eyes bulged from their sockets. she opened her mouth to say something, but only a high pitched
squeak came out. "was that a yes?" ashleigh got up from the bed and paced the floor. "i need a
meeting." "ashleigh, dear, i don t have that much time," kelso tried to joke. "i haven t known you that
long and what i do know about you makes me scared," ashleigh remarked. she stopped in her tracks and looked
at kelso directly into his eyes. "i need to step out for some fresh air. i ll be back with
an answer." "okay, as long as it is today," kelso remarked. ashleigh blew a kiss to kelso and walked out
the door. heidi walked over to her when she came out. "you don t look so good, ash. is he
going to be all right?" heidi asked concerned. "yeah, he ll be fine, but i don t know if i
ll be." she walked over to a chair and plopped down into it. "he asked me to marry him." a
chorus of "whats" and "huhs" erupted from the group. "well, what did you say?" dashelle asked. "nothing. i can t
make that decision right now. i mean, i ve still lot school to think about and other things. i can
t just throw all of that away and get married." "and you don t even know if he s worth
marrying," court remarked. court hit his forehead with the heel of his hand. "i m sorry, ash, that didn t
come out like it was supposed to." "life story, huh," ashleigh quipped. court mimicked a laugh. "what i meant was
that you haven t known him that long and you don t know that much about him." "not true, actually.
we ve been talking a lot and i mean a lot because, well, we don t do much else. we
ve been kind of uncomfortable around each other lately since he told me that he has hiv." "isn t that
a sign that you aren t ready to get married?" j.t. asked. "no, that s a sign of miscommunication," ashleigh
sald. "i get so frustrated trying to figure out what i m supposed to do that i come off as
uncomfortable or annoyed at him and i m not. he s the sweetest guy in the world and i ve
hurt his feelings at least five times this past week. that s not who i am, guys. i ve got
to walk back through that door and give him an answer and i have a feeling it is not going
to be the answer he wants to hear and that is going to crush both of us. any ideas how
i m supposed to pull this off?" ashleigh sald in a panicked voice. "say not yet," heidi suggested. "he has
to understand that You re not ready for the kind of commitment he s asking for since you ve only
known him a short time." "or say yes, but tell him that you don t want to get married right
away. you ve got some things you need to take care of first," dashelle added. "um, shell, i don t
think that is going to work in his condition," ashleigh mumbled. "oh, right," dashelle whispered. ashleigh grunted. "why does all
this stuff have to happen to me? i just want to go back to my dorm room, put on my
pjs, and sleep this whole thing away," ashleigh remarked. "there s a reason for everything," j.t. sald. "this is
