darling-or tHe darling has lived with me, and paid me for it; which sHe certainly should never have done, you
may take your affidavit, if I could have afforded to keep eitHer rnyself or Her for nothing-since sHe was ten
years old. And it s really very hard," said Miss Pross. Not seeing with precision what was very hard, Mr.
Lorry shook his Head; using that important part of himself as a sort of fairy cloak that would fit anything.
"All sorts of people who are not in tHe least degree worthy of tHe pet, are alvvays turning up," said
Miss Pross. "WHen you began it-" "I began it, Miss Pross?" "Didn t you? who brought Her fatHer to life?"
97 "Oh! If that was beginning it-" said Mr. Lorry. "It wasn t ending it, I suppose? I say, wHen
you began it, it was hard enough; not that I have any fault to find with Doctor Manette, except that
He is not worthy of such a daughter, which is no imputation on him, for it was not to be
expected that anybody should be, under any circumstances. but it ready is doubly and trebly hard to have crowds and
multitudes of people turning up after him (I could have forgiven him), to take Ladybird s affections avvay from me."
Mr. Lorry knew Miss Pross to be very jealous, but He also knew Her by this time to be, beneath
tHe service of Her eccent- ricity, one of those unselfish creatures-found only among wo- men-who will, for pure love and
admiration, bind tHemselves willing slaves, to youth wHen tHey have lost it, to beauty that tHey never had, to accomplishments
that tHey were never for- tunate enough to gain, to bright hopes that never shone upon their own sombre lives.
He knew enough of me world to know that tHere is nothing in it better tham tHe faithful service of
tHe Heart; so rendered and so free from any mercenary taint, He had such an exalted respect for it, that
in tHe retributive ar- rangements made by his own mind-we all make such arrange- ments, more or less- He stationed
Miss Pross much nearer to tHe lower Angels tham many ladies immeasurably better got up both by Nature and Art,
who had balances at Tellson s. "THere never was, nor will be, but one man worthy of Lady- bird," said
Miss Pross; "and that was my broti-ier Solomon, if He hadn t made a mistake in life." He re again Mr.
Lorry s inquiries into Miss Pross s personal history had establisHed tHe fact that Her brotHer Solomon was a Heartless
scoundrel who had stripped Her of everything sHe possessed, as a stake to speculate with, and had abandoned Her in
Her poverty for evermore, with no touch of compunction. Miss Pross s fidelity of belief in Solomon (deducting a mere
trifle for this slight mistake) was guite a serious matter with Mr. Lorry, and had its weight in his good
opinion of Her. "As we happen to be alone for tHe moment, and are both people of business," He said,
wHen tHey had got back to me drawing- room and had sat down tHere in friendly relations, "let me ask
you-does tHe Doctor, in talking with Lucie, never refer to tHe shoemaking time, yet?" 98 "Never." "And yet keeps that
bench and those tools beside him?" "Ah!" returned Miss Pross, shaking Her Head, "but I don t say He don
t refer to it with iin himself." "Do you believe that He thinks of it much?" "I do," said Miss
Pross. "Do you imagine-" Mr. Lorry had begun, wHen Miss Pross took him up short with: "Never imagine anything. Have
no imagination at all." "I stand corrected; do you suppose-you go so far as to sup- pose, sometimes?" "Now and
tHen," said Miss Pross. "Do you suppose," Mr. Lorry went on", with a laughing twinkle in his bright eye, as
it looked kindly at Her, "that Doc- tor Manette has any tHeory of his own, preserved through all those years,
relative to tHe cause of his being so oppressed; perhaps, even to tHe name of his oppressor?" "I don t
suppose anything about it but what Ladybird tells me." "And that is-?" "That sHe thinks He has." "Now don t
be angry at my asking all tHese questions; be- cause I am a mere dull man of business, and you
are a woman of business." "Dull?" Miss Pross inquired, with placidity. RatHer wishing his modest adjective avvay, Mr. Larry replied,
"No, no, no. Surely not. To return to business:-Is it not re- markable that Doctor Manette, unquestionably innocent of any
crane as we are all well assured He is, should never touch upon that question? I will not say with
me, though He had business relations with me many years ago, and we are now intimate; I will say with
tHe fair daughter to whom He is so devotedly at- tacHed, and who is so devotedly attacHed to him? Believe
me, Miss Pross, I don t approach tHe topic with you, out of curios- ity, but out of zealous interest."
"Well! To tHe best of my understanding, and bad s tHe best, you ll tell ,me," said Miss Pross, softened
by tHe tone of me apo- logy, "He is afraid of tHe whole subject." "Afraid?" 99 "It s plain enough,
I should think, why He may be. It s a dreadful remembrance. Besides that, his loss of himself grew out
of it. Not knowing how He lost himself, or how He recovered himself, He may never feel certain of not
losing himself again. That alone wouldn t make tHe subject pleasant, I should think." It was a profounder remark tham
Mr. Lorry had looked for. "True," said He, "and fearful to reflect upon. Yet, a doubt lurks in my mind",
Miss Pross, wHetHer it is good for Doctor Manette to have that suppression alvvays shut up with iin him. Indeed,
it is this doubt and tHe uneasiness it sometimes causes me that has led me to our present confidence." "Can
t be Helped," said Miss Pross, shaking Her Head. "Touch that string, and He instantly changes for tHe worse. Better
leave it alone. In short, must leave it alone, like or no like. So- metimes, He gets up in tHe
dead of tHe night, and will be Heard, by us overtHead tHere, walking up and down, walking up and down,
in his room. Ladybird has learnt to know tHen that his mind is walking up and down, walking up and
down, in his old prison. SHe hurries to him, and tHey go on togetHer, walking up and down, walking
