a chimney-stack brought me up against daniel gedge, who before the war did all my little repairs. the chimney i
put into the hands of day higgins, another firm of builders. a day or two afterwards hosea shied at something
and i discovered it was gedge, who had advanced into the roadway expressing a desire to have a word with
me. i quieted the patriotic hosea and drew up by the kerb. gedge was a lean foxy-faced man with a
long, reddish nose and a long blunt chin from which a grizzled beard sprouted aggressively forwards. he had hard, stupid
grey eyes. "i hope you ll excuse the liberty i take in stopping you, sir," he said, civilly. "that s
all right," said i. "what s the matter?" "i thought i had given you satisfaction these last twenty years." i
assented. "quite correct," said i. "then, may i ask, sir, without offence, why you ve called in day higgins?" "you
may," said i, "and, with or without offence, i ll answer your question. i ve called them in because they
re good loyal people. higgins has joined the army, and so has day s eldest boy, while you have been
going on like a confounded pro-german." "you ve no right to say that, major meredyth." "not when you go over
to godbury" -- the surging metropolis of the county some fifteen miles off -- "and tell a pack of fools
to strike because this is a capitalists war? not when you go round the mills here, and do your best
to stop young fellows from fighting for their country? god bless my soul, in whose interests are you acting, if
not germany s?" he put on his best platform manner. "i m acting in the best interests of the people
of this country. the war is wrong and incredibly foolish and can bring no advantage to the working man. why
should he go and be killed or maimed for life? will it put an extra penny in his pocket or
his widow s? no. oh!" -- he checked my retort -- "i know everything you would say. i see the
arguments every day in all your great newspapers. but the fact remains that i don t see eye to eye
with you, or those you represent. you think one way, i think another. we agree to differ." "we don t,"
said i. "i don t agree at all." "at any rate," he said, "i can t see how a difference
of political opinion can affect my ability now to put a new chimney-Stack in your house, any more than it
has done in the past." "in the past," said i, "political differences were parochial squabbles in comparison with things nowadays.
you re either for england, or against her." he smiled wryly. "i m for england. we both are. you think
her salvation lies one way. i think another. this is a free country in which every man has a right
to his own opinion." "exactly so," said i. "therefore you ll admit that i ve a right to the opinion
that you ought to be locked up either in a gaol or a lunatic asylum as a danger to the
state, and that, having that rightful opinion, i m justified in not entrusting the safety of my house to one
who, in my aforesaid opinion, is either a criminal or a lunatic." dialectically, i had him there. it afforded me
keen enjoyment. besides being a john bull englishman, i am a cripple and therefore ever so little malicious. "it s
all very well for you to talk, major meredyth," said he, "but your opinions cost you nothing -- mine are
costing me my livelihood. it isn t fair." "you might as well say," i replied, "that i, who have never
dared to steal anything in my life, live in ease and comfort, whereas poor bill sykes, who has devoted all
his days to burglary, has seven years penal servitude. no, gedge," said i, gathering up the reins, "it can t
be done. you can t have it both ways." he put a detaining hand on hosea s bridle and an
evil flash came into his hard grey eyes. "i ll have it some other way, then," he said. "a way
you ve no idea of. a way that ll knock all you great people of wellingsford off your high horses.
if you drive me to it, you ll see. i ll bide my time and i don t care whether
it breaks me." he stamped his foot and tugged at the bridle. two or three passers-by halted wonderingly and prettilove,
the hairdresser, moved across the pavement from his shop door where he had been taking the air. "my good fellow,"
said i, "you have lost your temper and are talking drivel. kindly unhand my donkey." prettilove, who has a sycophantic
sense of humour, burst into a loud guffaw. gedge swung angrily away, and hosea and i continued our interrupted progress
down the high street. although i had called his dark menaces drivel, i could not help wondering what it meant.
was he going to guide a german army to wellingsford? was he, a modern guy fawkes, plotting to blow up
the town hall while mayor and corporation sat in council? he was not the man to utter purely idle threats.
what the dickens was he going to do? something mean and dirty and underhand. i knew his ways, he was
always getting the better of somebody. the wise never let him put in a pane of glass without a specification
and estimate, and if he had not been by far the most competent builder in the town -- perhaps the
only one who thoroughly knew his business in all its branches -- no one would have employed him. when i
next saw betty, it was in one of the corridors of the hospital, after a committee meeting; she stopped by
my chair to pass the time of day. through the open doorway of a ward i perceived a well-known
