thee away from the Lord thy God, who brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house
of bondage. 13:12 And all Israel shall hear, and fear, and shall do no more any such wickedness as this
is in the midst of thee. 13:13 If thou shalt hear tell concerning one of thy cities, which the Lord
thy God giveth thee to dwell there, saying: 13:14 Certain base fellows are gone out from the midst of thee,
and have drawn away the inhabitants of their city, saying: Let us go and serve other gods, which ye have
not known ; 13:15 then shalt thou inquire, and make search, and ask diligently; and, behold, if it be truth,
and the thing certain, that such abomination is wrought in the midst of thee; 13:16 thou shalt surely smite the
inhabitants of that city with the edge of the sword, destroying it utterly, and all that is therein and the
cattle thereof, with the edge of the sword. 13:17 And thou shalt gather all the spoil of it into the
midst of the broad place thereof, and shall burn with fire the city, and all the spoil thereof every whit,
unto the Lord thy God; and it shall be a heap for ever; it shall not be built again. 13:18
? Deuteronomy - Chapter 013 And there shall cleave nought of the devoted thing to thy hand, that the Lord
may turn from the fierceness of His anger, and show thee mercy, and have compassion upon thee, and multiply thee,
as He hath sworn unto thy fathers; 13:19 when thou shalt hearken to the voice of the Lord thy God,
to keep all His commandments which I command thee this day, to do that which is right in the eyes
of the Lord thy God. -- Deuteronomy - Chapter 013 -- ? Deuteronomy - chapter 014 14:1 Ye are the
children of the Lord your God: ye shall not cut yourselves, nor make any baldness between your eyes for the
dead. 14:2 For thou art a holy people unto the Lord thy God, and the Lord hath chosen thee to
be His own treasure out of all peoples that are upon the face of the earth. 14:3 Thou shalt not
eat any abominable thing. 14:4 These are the beasts which ye may eat: the ox, the sheep, and the goat,
14:5 the hart, and the gazelle, and the roebuck, and the wild goat, and the pygarg, and the antelope, and
the mountain-sheep. 14:6 And every beast that parteth the hoof, and hath the hoof wholly cloven in two, and cheweth
the cud, among the beasts, that ye may eat. 14:7 Nevertheless these ye shall not eat of them that only
chew the cud, or of them that only have the hoof cloven: the camel, and the hare, and the rock-badger,
because they chew the cud but part not the hoof, they are unclean unto you; 14:8 and the swine, because
he parteth the hoof but cheweth not the cud, he is unclean unto you; of their flesh ye shall not
eat, and their carcasses ye shall not touch. 14:9 These ye may eat of all that are in the waters:
whatsoever hath fins and scales may ye eat; 14:10 and whatsoever hath not fins and scales ye shall not eat;
it is unclean unto you. ? Deuteronomy - Chapter 014 14:11 Of all clean birds ye may eat. 14:12 But
these are they of which ye shall not eat: the great vulture, and the bearded vulture, and the ospray; 14:13
and the glede, and the falcon, and the kite after its kinds; 14:14 and every raven after its kinds; 14:15
and the ostrich, and the night-hawk, and the sea-mew, and the hawk after its kinds; 14:16 the little owl, and
the great owl, and the horned owl: 14:17 and the pelican, and the carrion-vulture, and the cormorant; 14:18 and the
stork, and the heron after its kinds, and the hoopoe, and the bat. 14:19 And all winged swarming things are
unclean unto you; they shall not be eaten. 14:20 Of all clean winged things ye may eat, 14:21 Ye shall
not eat of any thing that dieth of itself; thou mayest give it unto the stranger that is within thy
gates, that he may eat it; or thou mayest sell it unto a foreigner; for thou art a holy people
unto the Lord thy God. Thou shalt not seethe a kid in its mother s milk. 14:22 ? Deuteronomy -
Chapter 014 Thou shalt surely tithe all the increase of thy seed, that which is brought forth in the field
year by year. 14:23 And thou shalt eat before the Lord thy God, in the place which He shall choose
to cause His name to dwell there, the tithe of thy corn, of thy wine, and of thine oil, and
the firstlings of thy herd and of thy flock; that thou mayest learn to fear the Lord thy God always.
14:24 And if the way be too long for thee, so that thou art not able to carry it, because
the place is too far from thee, which the Lord thy God shall choose to set His name there, when
the Lord thy God Shall bless thee; 14:25 then shalt thou turn it into money, and bind up the money
in thy hand, and shalt go unto the place which the Lord thy God shall choose. 14:26 And thou shalt
bestow the money for whatsoever thy soul desireth, for oxen, or for sheep, or for wine, or for strong drink,
or for whatsoever thy soul asketh of thee; and thou shalt eat there before the Lord thy God, and thou
shalt rejoice, thou and thy household. 14:27 And the Levite that is within thy gates, thou shalt not forsake him;
for he hath no portion nor inheritance with thee. 14:28 At the end of every three years, even in the
same year, thou shalt bring forth all the tithe of thine increase, and shall lay it up within thy gates.
14:29 And the Levite, because he hath no portion nor inheritance with thee, and the stranger, and the fatherless, and
the widow, that are within thy gates, shall come, and shall eat and be satisfied; that the Lord thy God
may bless thee in all the work of thy hand which thou doest. -- Deuteronomy - Chapter 014 -- ?
Deuteronomy - Chapter 015 15:1 At the end of every seven years thou shalt make a release. 15:2 And this
is the manner of the release: every creditor shall release that which he hath lent unto his neighbour; he
