abu talib at mecca... if you are a trader set out with caravan loads of goods, ponder the integrity of
the grandest man of the convoys destined for yemen and damascus... if you are a judge, recall his just and
prudential move in intervening to replace the black stone at the verge of meccan notables going at each others throats...
then turn your glance once more to history and take a look at the prophet in medina at the masjid
un-nabawi delivering his verdict with the greatest conceivable just ice between the poverty stricken destitute and well to do rich,
as just as one can imagine. if you are a spouse consider the deep emotions and compassion of the blessed
husband of khadijah and aisha... if you are have children then learn the affectionate conduct of the father of fatimah,
the grandfather of hasan and husayn... whoever you may be and in whichever circumstance you may find yourself in, you
will find muhammad mustafa (pbuh) as the most perfect master and most beautiful guide at all times and places. such
a master he is that one can correct all mistakes through emulating his sunnah; and putting things back on course,
make amends for all misplaced efforts. following the light of his guidance, one will at once rid his path of
drawbacks and find himself reach the gates of happiness... the inner world of the blessed prophet (pbuh) to be sure,
is an exhibition far more exquisite than a garden of paradise bursting with rare and elegant flowers and charmingly scented
roses. truly evident is hence the fact that the life of the prophet (pbuh) constitutes the most perfect example, even
for those on opposite poles of the social plane. the life of a convict, for instance, can never provide an
example for a judge, just as a judge cannot be shown as an example to a convict. likewise, the fate
of one grappling with poverty and struggling to earn a living throughout her life can never provide a case in
point for one wealthy abounding in riches. but the life of the blessed prophet (pbuh) affords an example for both
ends of the scale, for the reason that making him begin his (pbuh) ourney of life from the lowest social
end as an orphan, the almighty proceeded him through each arduous stage of life till finally elevating him to the
apex of power and authority, as prophet and head of state. each phase the prophet (pbuh) underwent throughout the course
of his life abundantly exhibits ideal modes of behavior to abide by in accommodating the ebbs and tides of human
life in general. thus in whatever position and circumstance one may be encumbered by, compliant with their means and capabilities,
the life of the noble messenger (pbuh) offers concrete and perfect examples of actions to adopt and implement for all
people. he is thus the grandest masterpiece transpired by allah, glory unto him, in mankind. the exemplar par excellence for
society to emulate, from the lowest end of the scale to the highest, for believers steeped in his inimitable character,
the prophet of the almighty for the rest to follow, and in particular philosophers attempting to explain everything with their
limited rational capabilities and cognition, are eternally doomed to betray deficiency. since they are firmly grounded in divine revelation, all
prophets have come as guides of truth confirming one another. each have communicated and instructed the commands sent by the
glorious, always quoting the almighty, conveying his commands. yet it has always been their personal views that philosophers, posing as
guides in shedding upon mankind the light of truth, have expounded, insofar as they have been deprived of divine reinforcement
in their words and have thus had to infer under the influence of their egos, tainted by their inadequate reasoning.
all they have accomplished therefore is refuting and disclaiming the systems of one another, falling miserably short of guiding themselves
let alone the rest of society. aristotle, for instance, though known for having founded certain principles of ethics, being devoid
of divine revelation, seeing a single person affirm faith in his system and find happiness through its application is inconceivable.
true to form, the hearts of philosophers have not been refined; neither have their souls been purified and their thoughts
and actions matured through the unique aid of revelation. the only means of protection from the abysses that rational faculties
and inner inclinations untrained by revelation may steer one towards, is the habl ul-matin, the toughest rope presented to humanity
by the prophet of the final hour (pbuh) which is the holy quran. and the most tangible and practical realizations
of the truths found deep in the bosom of the quran are to be observed in the prosperous life of
the blessed prophet (pbuh) . standing as the most urgent task for man compelled to fulfill his reason for existence
is therefore to align in accordance with the quran and sunnah. for the quran and the sunnah are the prescriptions
of happiness for both here and the hereafter, the eternal legacy of the light of being (pbuh) who has bequeathed
those two luminous beacons for his ummah. before embarking on the duty of prophethood, the blessed prophet (pbuh) had moreover
endeared himself to everyone, by virtue of a perfection exuding character that simply compelled all to confess to him being
the trustworthy(as)al-amin- and the honest(as)as-sadiq-. only subsequent to this affirmation of character did the call begin. fully aware of the
prophet s (phuh) exemplary gharacter of decency and integrity long before the arrival of the great duty, the locals cherished
him. the tribe that called him al-amin had equally succumbed unconditionally to his adjudication amidst an embittered dispute regarding the
replacement of the black stone during the renovation of kabah. for the messenger of allah (pbuh) was pervaded with such
honesty that even abu sufyan, still an infidel nurturing only malice for the prophet (pbuh) at the time, when posed
a question by heraclius, the byzantine emperor, regarding whether there was ever a time that the prophet (pbuh) did
