had come over him. I hope you believe in my
love for my sister and my sincere affection and respect
for you, he said, reddening. Alexey Alexandrovitch stood still and
said nothing, but his face struck Stepan Arkadyevitch by its
expression of an unresisting sacrifice. I intended...I wanted to have
a little talk with you about my sister and your
mutual position, he said, still struggling with an unaccustomed constraint.
Alexey Alexandrovitch smiled mournfully, looked at his brother-in-law, and without
answering went up to the table, took from it an
unfinished letter, and handed it to his brother-in-law. I think
unceasingly of the same thing. And here is what I
had begun writing, thinking I could say it better by
letter, and that my presence irritates her, he said, as
he gave him the letter. Stepan Arkadyevitch took the letter,
looked with incredulous surprise at the lusterless eyes fixed so
immovably on him, and began to read. I see that
my presence is irksome to you. Painful as it is
to me to believe it, I see that it is
so, and cannot be otherwise. I don t blame you,
and God is my witness that 935 of 1759 Anna
Karenina on seeing you at the time of your illness
I resolved with my whole heart to forget all that
had passed between us and to begin a new life.
I do not regret, and shall never regret, what I
have done; but I have desired one thing- your good,
the good of your soul-and now I see I have
not attained that. Tell me yourself what will give you
true happiness and peace to your soul. I put myself
entirely in your hands, and trust to your feeling of
what s right. Stepan Arkadyevitch handed back the letter, and
with the same surprise continued looking at his brother-in-law, not
knowing what to say. This silence was so awkward for
both of them that Stepan Arkadyevitch s lips began twitching
nervously, while he still gazed without speaking at Karenin s
face. That s what I wanted to say to her,
said Alexey Alexandrovitch, turning away. Yes, yes... said Stepan Arkadyevitch,
not able to answer for the tears that were choking
him. Yes, yes, I understand you, he brought out at
last. I want to know what she would like, said
Alexey Alexandrovitch. I am afraid she does not understand her
own position. She is not a judge, said Stepan Arkadyevitch,
recovering himself. She is crushed, simply crushed by your 936
of 1759 Anna Karenina generosity. If she were to read
this letter, she would be incapable of saying anything, she
would only hang her head lower than ever. Yes, but
what s to be done in that case? how explain,
how find out her wishes? If you will allow me
to give my opinion, I think that it lies with
you to point out directly the steps you consider necessary
to end the position. So you consider it must be
ended? Alexey Alexandrovitch interrupted him. But how? he added, with
a gesture of his hands before his eyes not usual
with him. I see no possible way out of it.
There is some way of getting out of every position,
said Stepan Arkadyevitch, standing up and becoming more cheerful. There
was a time when you thought of breaking off....
