ones holding all of you back from a life of hope and prosperity. i give you, the givers." someone in
the group designated as takers, booed, which started of a chorus of weak giggled. those who had been dubbed the
givers wore various expressions: concern, defiance and even here and there, some felt the pit of his or her stomach
contract in the old grip of fear. "charity," continued the dark form, pointing a slim finger at the givers. his
voice took on an edge of impatient sarcasm. "in, this troubled day and age charity is a dangerous heresy. "and
now i need your full attention. this is important!" the inquisitor waited until he was sure he had everyone s
attention. before he continued, "my primary reason for being here is to remind you, despite the beauty of the rich
green oasis we ve prepared for you this evening, outside the verdant woods the real world awaits. tomorrow you go
back to a life which threatens starvation and death. no escape--no return to the world as it was. a world
with no room for impractical ideals now, you must think only of yourselves. survival is the key word. survival of
the fittest. to achieve that, you must consider becoming one of us. kirk, who had been listening intently, wondered--one of
you? who are you anyway? just then, a small bell rang and other robed figures began to enter the room.
a man clad in a black habit took his place at the small table and began to sharpen the quill
pens. about thirty figures entered and took the places before the rows of chairs. some wore symbols of high office,
others of lesser degrees. the inquisitor stepped to the dais and seated himself with great dignity in the ornate leather
chair. now, when he spoke, he was very businesslike. "we ve been aware of this impending crisis for centuries and
are the only ones preconditioned to exist in this desperate world. we have redesigned ourselves to survive. how you may
become one of us will be shown to you later. i truly regret that, in the meantime those who are
unsuitable must be eliminated. there is no other way. the next test may be difficult, but is designed to convince
those of you givers, to join us or perish finally the elegant gentleman dressed as cesare borgia stepped forward. they
do not deny the heresy, my lord!" and there was a sneer on his thin mouth. "then they are condemned
by their silence," smirked the inquisitor. the givers standing behind kirk tried to press forward, but it was too late
"then charity has lost." announced the inquisitor. turning to the clergy seated beneath him he demanded. "brethren, what is your
decision?" each member of the tribunal raised his right hand and in a unanimous gesture turned thumbs down. shipley swayed
unsteadily on his feet. kirk, who had been watching his friend with deep concern, hurried forward and caught the old
man as he began to topple. the young physicist lowered him gently to a nearby stool and leaned the white
had against his side. then he turned in the direction of the inquisitor. his deep blue eyes blazed with fury
at the inequities of the strange trial. almost before the condemning words were out of the inquisitor s mouth, soldiers
began to enter the room. their heavy boots and clanking armor made a terrible din that rang through the hollow
stone chamber. with swords draw, the blades held smartly upward, hilts clasped firmly in mailed fists to their steel-armored chest,
they surrounded the givers. the takers broke into uproarious laughter at this last bit of fin and games. they laughed
to see some of the nation s great leaders in such a sorry plight. indeed, the prisoners all wore hangdog
looks and this caused the takers to double their gales of laughter. "silence!" roared the inquisitor rising to his feet.
"we will not allow you to make a mockery of this tribunal." the laughter trailed off. the room became quiet
once again except for the faint rattling of armor and shuffling boots of the soldiers. they stood at attention in
a tight circle around the fifty or so prisoners, awaiting further orders. the inquisitor faced the guarded group of givers
below him. the condemned could just see the blaze of his eyes within the shadowy cowl. he appeared to tower
over him as he solemnly read their sentence from a small scroll just handed him from the clergy below. "for
the crime of heresy--there is only one sentence. the soul must be cleansed. therefor, it is the decision of this
tribunal that you all be put to death in the scourging power of the flame, take them out and burn
them!" the last was said with such vehemence, the assembled guests, both the imprisoned givers and the assembled takers gasped.
they suddenly realized the horrible truth of what was going on. what had seemed like a game at the start
was a game no longer. it was difficult to see the condemned as whey were well protected by the circle
of armored soldiers. from their midst , however, a wailing sound began to rise toward the high vaulted ceiling. the
soldiers started to lead the prisoners from the chamber, and as they passed the takers, could see though the wall
of soldiers, faces drained of color--pale and sickly. some walked with heads bowed, others sobbed. some were proud and defiant.
the soldiers marched grimly on each side of the prisoners. only their hard eyes glittered between the slits in their
helmets. the givers were marched from the room, down a wide hall until they slowly began to ascend what appeared
to be a great stone ramp. there was little light, but up ahead they could see a patch of stars
glittering in the sky. the procession moved slowly, almost painfully. some stumbled and had to be lifted up. as they
reached the portal and moved out into the chill morning air, it was still dark in the west, but
