for you both." peter nodded again. the man s stature and abruptness bolstered peter s own inadequacy. chad put on
a confident smile and said, "i know it will be a great year for me. i am looking forward to
it. it will be wonderful experience, no doubt. now, what s that accent? you re not a countryman of simon.
i would guess you re english. it s that lovely uppercrust, posh accent. i love it." "i certainly don t
think of it as posh, but six years study at oxford did rub off. you wouldn t know i grew
up in family of geordies." peter smiled. he assumed the comment was meant to be humorous but had no idea
what that meant. chad responded, "oh no, i wouldn t at all." roger continued. "i immigrated to ?outh africa seven
years ago. this is my home now." he went on about being instrumental in starting the st. stephens church five
years ago, noting he had been very satisfied with their progress. he then gave a brief history of his own
church and touted about his congregation. roger s unashamed bragging increasingly agitated peter. he kept shifting his weight from leg
to leg, continually folding and unfolding his arms, not knowing what to do with his hands. chad listened intently as
roger went on. peter knew this interest was purely pretence. peter tried to tune the man out, but his forceful
and full voice commanded attention, and his height was more than intimidating; he stood half a head taller than anyone
else in the courtyard. peter wondered, how could this guy be a pastor? how could he possibly offer comfort to
lost and suffering ?ouls? those poor parishioners. roger s voice, all of sudden, seemed to increase in decibels, causing peter
to jump. "we have many young families and many young in faith. we are all eager to learn and venture
into new things. you fellows are to come and visit my church and experience ?outh africa s most famous city,
one of the world s greatest cities." "if we can. that would be cool." peter s tone lacked conviction. chad
said, "we must, that ll be great. what do you ?outh africans say, lekker?" as roger meandered through the remaining
crowd, giving nods and handshakes as he went, chad leaned close to peter and whispered. "damn limey. man! he is
?o full of shit." peter chuckled and shook his head in amazement as he watched roger s head bob above
everyone else s. he whispered back to chad, "yeah, what an arrogant ?on of bitch." as cleanup of the braai
began, an older gentleman arrived. he was no doubt kin to simon: slightly more rotund, considerably grayer, bifocals and rustic
wrinkles highlighting brown eyes and a dark complication. it was george, pastor of st. stephens, simon s father. he held
up his hands and hushed the remaining two dozen wellfed parishioners, "unfortunately, i had an emergency visit at the hospital.
i do apologize. but i see you have indeed enjoyed yourselves and have no doubt given a warm welcome to
our american friends." he turned toward peter and chad and waved them to come forward. "we have ?o looked forward
to you joining us, sharing in the ministry with us. we anticipate a wonderful contribution from you two." he then
offered prayers. as george strutted to the other side of the courtyard, peter leaned near chad and said, "wonderful contribution?
wonderful contribution?" chad patted his shoulder. "no worries, pete. it ll be a breeze." peter and chad had their feet
propped on an eightfootlong table sitting in the far corner of the dimly lit church hall. sandwiches had been quickly
devoured, and they were gearing up for another round of heavy thinking and arduous planning. with his right foot, peter
pushed an empty teapot toward chad and said, "i do believe it s your turn to make tea." chad s
left foot pushed the teapot back toward the middle of the table, which was cluttered with notepaper and notepads. "if
you want tea, you may indeed go fix it." chad and peter had brainstormed the whole of saturday morning: drawing
up a list of ideas, discussing goals, and setting ?ome objectives for the various youth programs in the church. as
they prepared to continue the marathon planning session, steve, who they had met the day they arrived, tapped on the
window. with a monkeylike grin, he waved at them. a moment later, he came through the door with a young
lady by his side. "you two know sarah, don t you? don t tell me you started without us! george
did say after lunch, didn t he, sarah?" "you re fine," chad said as he got up to greet the
two helpers assigned by george to assist them. "we ve just been brainstorming - only i think the storm died
down hours ago." steve said, "well, look out. another storm s about to blow in wreaking havoc and mayhem. did
you meet sarah yet? this is sarah. she was my firstever girlfriend when i was ten. i plan to marry
her. she knows that and is eagerly waiting for me to get the courage to ask her." "shut up, steve.
i met you okies at the braai. my dad is johan. i as sure you remember him." "yeah, of course
i remember." chad had hardly noticed the tall, slender girl at the braaivleis. as he shook her hand, he glanced
at her face; her dark complexion and oversized brown eyes blended in a stunning manner with her golden brown, shoulderlength
hair - hair that glistened like silk and begged to be stroked. chad wondered how he had missed this one.
"chad. that s peter." "i know," she said with a glance into chad s eyes, which sent an unexpected sensation
down his spine. "shall i fix you okies ?ome tea? we need to get started. i must be home by
five." "sure," said peter, "but i wouldn t be calling chad an okie. he s from new jersey. i
