of fire-or was it flecks of granite?-ricocheted around him, and then he felt a nick across one shoulder-he was not
sure from what. a couple more rounds cut past, but now they were going wide. he collapsed into the dense
bramble and tried to catch his breath. what next? the uzi still had a half-full clip. maybe he could hold
them off. he stilled his breathing and listened, but heard nothing. the mountainside was deathly quiet, so much so he
could almost hear the crash of waves on the shore below. it was probably only wishful imagination, but the quiet
gave hope he might temporarily be out of danger. he turned and looked up the mountain, finally able to see
it clearly. the near hillside was covered with brush, the only objects visible above the green being the tip of
a high-tech jungle. satcom had a hell of a communications installation. outlined against the blue sky were huge parabolic antennas
used for microwave uplinks, a phased-array transmission sys-tem for powering the space vehicles, a myriad of dishes for satellite uplinks
and downlinks, and various other antennas used for conventional radio. it was all set inside a high-security hurricane fence with
a gray cinderblock control hut at the near corner. well, he thought, with that battery of antennas, there s surely
a way to do what has to be done next. . . . this time he wouldn t waste radio
access with maydays. as the landing announcement sounded through british air flight 1101 from london to athens, isaac mannheim took
off his thick spectacles, wiped them futilely with a greasy handkerchief, settled them back, and stared down. the plane was
now on final approach, and he had already taken down his flight bag and stuffed it under the seat in
preparation, ready to march off. mannheim was professor emeritus at mit, department of engineering, and he retained the intellectual curiosity
of a mischievous schoolboy. he had the flowing white hair of a nineteenth-century european philosopher, the burning eyes of a
jules verne visionary, the single-minded enthusiasm of a born inventor, the discursive knowledge of a renaissance man, and the self-assurance
of a true genius-which he was. wearing a tweedy checked suit, a frayed brown overcoat, smudgy horn-rims, and a boston
red sox baseball cap, he also looked every bit as eccentric as his reputation said, the baseball cap was tribute
to another of his eclectic concerns-the statistics of that particular team. those he kept on a computer file and subjected
to daily updates. as issac mannheim saw it, he was the undisputed father of project cyclops; bill bates was merely
in charge of its delivery room down on andikythera. it was a half-truth, perhaps, but not entirely untrue either. he
had dreamed up the idea and proved in his mit lab that it could work. the rest, he figured, was
merely scaling it up-which any dimwit with half a billion dollars could do with ease. he had already seen to
the hard part. mannheim liked to check in on his baby every other week, just to make sure that bates-who
was going to make a fortune off his idea-was doing it right. although the long flight to athens and then
the helicopter ride down to andikythera were starting to make him feel his seventy-five years, he did not really mind.
when you re my age, he d claim, you don t have time to sit around on your butt all
day. he always flew british air from london rather than taking a direct olympic flight from boston, mainly because he
was an anglophile but also because he wasn t quite sure he trusted greek maintenance. isaac mannheim was old school
in all things. as the tires screeched onto the asphalt, he glanced out the window again, marveling how small the
athens airport was. but then his mind quickly traveled on to other pressing matters: namely, the day s agenda. he
was anxious to go over the power-up data number by number with georges lefarge. the young french canadian had been
his best student in cam-bridge, ten years ago, and isaac mannheim was secretly pleased, very pleased, that georges had been
given a leading role in the project. together, years ago, they had ironed out many of the technical problems in
the system. the work back then had been done on a lab bench, and a shoestring, but lefarge knew everything
that could go wrong. with georges as director of computer systems here, mannheim knew the project was in good hands,
at least the crucial computer part of it. when the doors opened, he was one of the first to step
out of the ba 757 and down the steel stairway onto the runway. he reflected that he d had a
good flight this time, with only an hour layover in heathrow s infamously crowded terminal four. now, as the airport
bus arrived to carry the bleary-eyed london passengers into the athens terminal, he anticipated getting an early start on the
day. he glanced down toward the far end of the airport, the civilian aviation terminal, expecting to catch sight of
bates blue-and-white-striped agusta helicopter. funny, he couldn t see it today; usually you could. it was odd; they were always
here, waiting. customary promptness was just one more example of how well that young dr. andros was handling the project.
he chafed to admit it, but she was pretty damned good. although he had long scoffed at the idea that
women could compete successfully with male engineers, he had to admit she was as professional as any male project manager
he d ever worked with. carrying his overstuffed black briefcase in his left hand and his tattered nylon flight bag
in his right, he waited till the airport bus was almost full before stepping on. airport buses, he noted as
an engineer, operated on the old-time lifo computer storage principle: last in, first out. no random access. and he was
indeed first out as they pulled into the sheltered awning of the terminal. the athens morning sun was already
