remembrance of things on high, and have spent the time in viewing these horses. bring the horses back to me. and when they were brought back he began
to cut off their legs and -- "it was at this moment that the young englishman sprang at me. my god! how little can i remember of the
next few minutes! he was a boxer, this shred of a man. he had been trained to strike. i tried to catch him by the hands. pac, pac,
he came upon my nose and upon my eye. i put down my head and thrust at him with it. pac, he came from below. but ah! i
was too much for him. i hurled myself upon him, and he had no place where he could escape from my weight. he fell flat upon the cushions
and i seated myself upon him with such conviction that the wind flew from him as from a burst bellows. "then i searched to see what there was
with which i could tie him. i drew the strings from my shoes, and with one i secured his wrists, and with another his ankles. then i tied
the cravat round his mouth again, so that he could only lie and glare at me. when i had done all this, and had stopped the bleeding of
my own nose, i looked out of the coach and ah, monsieur, the very first thing which caught my eyes was that candle -- that dear little candle
-- glimmering in the window of the minister. alone, with these two hands, i had retrieved the capitulation of an army and the loss of a province. yes,
monsieur, what abercrombie and 5,000 men had done upon the beach at aboukir was undone by me, single-handed, in a hackney coach in harley street. "well, i had
no time to lose, for at any moment monsieur otto might be down. i shouted to my driver, gave him his second guinea, and allowed him to proceed
to watier s. for myself, i sprang into our embassy s carriage, and a moment later the door of the minister opened. he had himself escorted monsieur otto
downstairs, and now so deep was he in talk that he walked out bareheaded as far as the carriage. as he stood there by the open door, there
came the rattle of wheels, and a man rushed down the pavement. " a despatch of great importance for milord hawkesbury! he cried. "i could see that it
was not my messenger, but a second one. milord hawkesbury caught the paper from his hand, and read it by the light of the carriage lamp. his face,
monsieur, was as white as this plate, before he had finished. " monsieur otto, he cried, we have signed this treaty upon a false understanding. egypt is in
our hands. " what! cried monsieur otto. impossible! " it is certain. it fell to abercrombie last month. " in that case, said monsieur otto, it is very
fortunate that the treaty is signed. " very fortunate for you, sir, cried milord hawkesbury, as he turned back to the house. "next day, monsieur, what they call
the bow street runners were after me, but they could not run across salt water, and alphonse lacour was receiving the congratulations of monsieur talleyrand and the first
consul before ever his pursuers had got as far as dover."but we were demoralised by luxury. we could no longer manage without a helper--especially now in the winter
time, when fires had to be lit--the most heart- breaking task that a man can undertake. i bethought me of the quiet miss williams, and hunted her up
in her shop. she was quite willing to come, and saw how she could get out of the rent; but the difficulty lay with her stock. this sounded
formidable at first, but when i came to learn that the whole thing had cost eleven shillings, it did not appear insurmountable. in half an hour my watch
was pawned, and the affair concluded. i returned with an excellent housekeeper, and with a larger basketful of inferior swedish matches, boatlaces, cakes of black lead, and little
figures made of sugar than i should have thought it possible to get for the money. so now we have settled down, and i hope that a period
of comparative peace lies before us. in choosing a few typical cases which illustrate the remarkable mental qualities of my friend, sherlock holmes, i have endeavoured, as far
as possible, to select those which presented the minimum of sensationalism, while offering a fair field for his talents. it is, however, unfortunately impossible entirely to separate the
sensational from the criminal, and a chronicler is left in the dilemma that he must either sacrifice details which are essential to his statement and so give a
false impression of the problem, or he must use matter which chance, and not choice, has provided him with. with this short preface i shall turn to my
notes of what proved to be a strange, though a peculiarly terrible, chain of events. it was a blazing hot day in august. baker street was like
