while incapable of test driving was worse than a waste of time, it was a drag. as april arrived and
graduation grew closer, i became a hermit. my leg was nearly healed, though i continued with my three appointments every
week with the physical therapist. ivan was just as ugly to me as ever. during my last appointment, she had
me doing leg extensions on a new machine in her office. after ten repetitions on each leg, i was resting
before my next set when she walked up behind me, in her usual warm manner, "wonderful lauren! good job! now
that you have practiced your form, how about putting some weight on the machine?" surprised at her compliment, i looked
back at the weight selector and told her, "i just did 40 pounds." "congratulations, you can lift a bag of
potatoes with your legs. i am soooo proud. now, do you want to be a grocer or do you want
to be a fully functioning adult?" she reached for the selector bar and put it at 80. i wasn t
sure, but i guessed this was her idea of positive reinforcement. other motivational compliments she gave me included: "no, take
your time, i don t mind that you waste my time. it s more important that you take a break.
i wouldn t want you to exert yourself." "this is too much work, it s too hard; maybe you can
pay someone to come do your therapy appointments for you?" and my all time favorite, "it s okay, i think
if we sprinkle fertilizer on your leg, the muscles will grow back on their own and you won t have
to do anything." she told me during my very first appointment in the hospital that in three months my legs
would be stronger than they Were before the shooting. i would never admit it to her, but she was right
- her constant barrage of insults must have pushed the right buttons for me. i had to keep using crutches
until my thirty-sixth appointment, but i could tell that i really didn t need them even now. i found that
i was really looking forward to summer, and had even talked to wanda about returning to the restaurant. everything seemed
to be back to normal, with the exception of that huge hole in my chest where my heart used to
be. although my memories were no longer sharp, i had these images of max - very outdoorsy. his brawn, with
his happy-go-lucky attitude (at least from my brief exposure to him), his tanned skin even when i met him in
february, always made me think of him in rugged venues. with as little as i knew about him, he could
have just hit a gym with a tanning bed - but since the fantasies were mine, i saw him playing
football in a park, tossing a frisbee on a beach, and doing lots of other activities, but always outdoors. i
hated that i had to rely on my imagination because i wasn t all that imaginative. i had convinced myself
that max was more a figment of my imagination than a real person. this might have been my way of
dealing with the rejection or whatever max s abrupt departure was. seth and i saw each other nearly every day,
but emotionally he kept his distance and even half-heartedly socialized with other girls at school. after february, he never openly
mentioned that he wanted to start things up again, but i had my suspicions that our mothers were still scheming.
nothing overt, just comments like, "you and seth should go see that new movie" or, "you two should plan a
big bash after graduation." i had a strange dream one night, strange from the perspective that, up until that night,
when it came to max, i had always had roughly the same dream. in the usual dream, max told me
he was my destiny; my courage would bring us together. but this time the dream was different. it started the
same as the other: he sat across from me in the chair by my window. the fantasies my imagination conjured
up during the day were nothing like the crispness of my dream at night. max sat quietly in the dark
as i watched him in the chair, waiting for him to go into his regular monologue. when he didn t
speak, i was worried he was going to fade away right there in front of me. i did something i
had never done, i asked him, "why won t you call me?" i was shocked at the sound of my
own voice. in the conversation in my, "max dream," the same conversation we had hundreds of times, i had never
heard my own voice. "it takes time, lauren." his voice sounded reassuring. "what takes time?" "destinies are mapped, they don
t unravel immediately. stay strong, remember your purpose." "my purpose, right. you won t call me. you left for no
reason. you wouldn t even listen to me." "how can you know passion if you don t deny yourself the
thing you want most?" "what? are you out of your ever-loving mind? how do i know passion if the only
guy i ve ever been the slightest bit attracted to skips town before we can even go on a date?"
"passion is important. it guides decisions you make. i promise you ll know passion, you just have to be patient."
i wanted to scream. i wanted to get out of bed and go over and shake him. i wanted to
know why in the hell he left and didn t call me. the only passion i was feeling in this
moment was quickly twisted up with fury. patient? it had been over two months. he knew how to get a
hold of me, but he didn t even try. i closed my eyes, determined not to let this dream play
out, willing myself to wake up. i felt a coolness on my temple. i reached up to swat away
