disbelief. from his position he could see both sides of the mirror and no part of the letter opener had
emerged out the back. cassiopia withdrew the instrument and studied it. it seemed unaffected. she turned and faced him with
a narrowed stare. markman could find no appropriate words. he gestured nervously with one hand and tried to appear skeptical.
he struggled to think of an explanation for what he had just seen, but could only shake his head in
frustration. "bring me ?omething larger." hoping a second test would reconstruct reality, he quickly fetched an aluminum stool near the
drack and handed it to her. with the same quiet determination, she promptly pushed the legs through the mirrored wall
and drew them back out again. they too, appeared unscathed. rubbing her left temple she looked over at markman. "i
think my father went through this door and didn t come back. what do you think?" markman shook his head
and looked up at her with a wrinkled brow. "i don t understand any of this, ms. cassell. i ve
seen ?ome pretty unbelievable things in my time, but nothing like this. i guess i m ?orry i suggested you
were part of a hoax. i was raised to believe anything that anything is possible, but i m afraid this
has caught me off guard. the only thing we can do now is make a request to the university to
bring in ?ome experts on this. i m open to suggestions, if you have any." "there are no experts on
this," she replied stiffly. "can t you see this is groundbreaking science? no one understands this, except maybe my father."
"well we can t go any further until we figure out what is happening here. i ve got to call
my??????contact. i m overdue." "grant me one small favor then?" "what s that?" "allow me ?ome time to review my
father s files before you bring the whole world swarming onto this house. if i can have ?ome time to
study them in peace, it s possible we could both learn more about what s happening here. once you turn
this over to the authorities, they ll probably lock us both out and neither you nor i will have anymore
to say about it. i love my father very much. it would kill me to be shut out from finding
him." he looked into her persuasive brown eyes. how could he explain what had happened anyway? "how long do you
want?" "just give me tonight." "i ll hold them off, but only for tonight." for the first time she looked
back appreciatively. "thank you for that." "it s possible we didn t really understand what the robot said. your father
may still show up." "yes," she replied, but she looked at the glistening body of the tel and realized it
had been left there for a rea?on. it had been waiting. markman returned from calling the university to find the
lab deserted. already in a bad mood from the unprofessional exchange with the chancellor, he now found himself absent the
only per?on who could validate the strange story of the cassell case. he had described the situation to the people
in the director s office as best he could, and had they not been using the conference caller, probably would
have been much more successful at it. periodic comments from the background, such as the suggestion he not forget to
check the robot s alibi, punctuated with howling laughter, had disrupted the verbal report to the point it had been
beyond salvage. the profes?or s history of eccentricity clearly had harmed his credibility with ?ome groups. and, contrary to cassiopia
s fears, there was little chance of any involvement by the police, at least for the time being. news of
the murders of an elderly antiques collector and a homeless street dweller in a back alley, combined with the strange
death of one beauford smith, whose house had subsequently burned to the ground, meant the re?ources of the local police
agency were needed elsewhere. as for the university staff, markman had just learned there had been ?ome ?ort of disturbance
on campus, as well. the school s attention and re?ources had shifted away from dr. cassell for the time being.
and now there was no sign of ms. cassell. she could not have left the house. he had made a
point to watch from the kitchen while making the calls. she had given her word not to leave and he
had believed her. her deception was an unpleasant surprise, since his instincts about people were nearly always correct. the strange,
unexplained mirror loomed before him, still on, humming steadily, dominating the room around it. the robot had not moved from
its position by the drack control station. it stood facing the side of the mirror, waiting. he cursed under his
breath as he quickly realized the most likely prospect was that the dizzy woman had recklessly gone through the electronic
mirror in search of her father. markman s lack of familiarity with computers now left him feeling helpless and inadequate.
few things frightened him. the unknown never did. but he had been raised in a foreign land where technology was
considered magic, and machines were ?ometimes the work of demons. he looked at the silent mechanical servant that continued to
ignore him. "robot, where is ms. cassell?" to his surprise, the machine answered. "there is a message for you, mr.
markman, from cassiopia cassell," it said coarsely. "her instructions are for you to wait here until she returns." "where is
she?" the robot made no attempt to answer. it stood by, as though it were alone, waiting as instructed. "robot,
where did she go?" no response. well that s just great, he thought, still eyeing the metallic statue with distrust.
you draw the most preposterous case possible, get laughed at during your first callin, and lose the only witness you
have-all in a matter of a single hour. on top of that, she leaves a message for you to
