live peaceably as neighbors for thirty years"? only if the neighbors come to blows does relational positioning in the little
tradition come to the fore. besides, relational positioning also goes beyond the usual understanding of "religious" and/or "interreligious dialogue", for
it is not only other religions that need to be related to, but also the prevailing social, political, economic and
intellectual trends of the time. in taking a relational position towards these, policies of acquiescence, accommodation or outright opposition may
be followed, as in the relational positioning towards other religions. relational positioning can also create a reflexive feedback cycle. an
example can be seen in abe masao s 1989 article the impact of dialogue with christianity on my self understanding
as a buddhist, in which he states that dialogue with christian theologians has led him to new insight into emptiness,
buddhist ethics and the buddhist understanding of history. of course, he is just one person, and one cannot foresee to
what extent his new understandings will spread through japanese buddhist society. nevertheless, we can see that interreligious dialogue, which is
one aspect of relational positioning, can potentially trigger feedback into the originating culture. like representation, relational positioning is not a
task that can ever be said to have reached a final destination. new non-buddhist ideas will arise to challenge the
buddhist thinker, new interpretations of old non-buddhist practices will be revived and need to be dealt with. but what one
can say is that over time, in a given society, one can expect a general social consensus on the place
of buddhism in that society. a stable platform or plateau is reached in which relational positioning ceases to be the
main concern. it gracefully slides into the background as an ongoing, but no longer central, activity. by now, buddhism has
become respectable. and this very respectability signals the beginning of the next stage. respectability and establishment. we have now reached
a stage where buddhism has been at least partially transplanted. in the next step buddhism gains social and cultural respectability
in its new home, and to a greater or lesser extent becomes established within that society. this stage is the
triumph (temporary, as we shall see) of great tradition orthodoxy over meta-tradition radicalism. it is a peaceful, even placid period
in which the main tasks of representation and relational positioning have been accomplished, leaving only minor adjustments to be made
to deal with social and linguistic developments. great tradition buddhism can now fully exert its influence over little tradition ritualism
as well, directing popular devotions into channels approved by orthodoxy. it is a time of temple-building and intense scriptural study,
of deep learning and a thorough ingraining of buddhism in the social fabric, but not, perhaps, of great spiritual advancement
in the buddhist understanding of the word. the lack of innovation during this stage implies that little reflexive feedback is
likely to occur. although it is a strongly loaded term, i believe we are justified at this stage to talk
about the reification of buddhism. buddhism has become a religion, a social category, an object, a "thing". but this is
precisely the kind of essentialist thinking that buddhist philosophy undercuts so radically. and it is in reaction to established buddhism
that the next stage of transplantation takes place. re-enlightening. at some stage, establishment reaches a point where it becomes abundantly
clear, - to those who will stop to consider, - that in becoming dominant, buddhism has become a stale, status
quo religion. into this peaceful state of affairs bursts a new explosion of meta-tradition insight: a return to the radical
anti-metaphysics of the buddha. in buddhist myth, legend and history, this is usually presented as the appearance of a single
enlightened individual: we see the appearance of a nagarjuna, a milarepa, a bodhidharma or a dogen, all pointing the buddhist
world back to the ur-moment of the buddha s enlightenment, to the experience of the utter interdependence, and hence emptiness,
of all phenomena. more recently, we can see the same process in the re-establishment of the forest tradition of thai
theravada buddhism by ajahn chah. in our own time, when we have largely abandoned the "great man" understanding of history,
we may ask whether one individual, even an enlightened one, could really have much of an effect unless social conditions
were somehow ripe for the message to be heard. i am content to let the matter rest, since it does
not really affect my argument. whether it is a single individual, a religious organization or a more general and dispersed
movement that initiates re-enlightenment., the crucial point is the way the meta-tradition reasserts its primacy. the effect of this re-enlightening
stage is an almost immediate reinvigoration of buddhism, which may take the form of new schools being founded, or which
may be more diffuse. but the net effect is not to destroy the established great tradition, for even as the
enlightened teacher speaks the message that will re-enlighten buddhism, he has no choice but to speak in the set of
concepts developed over generations by the great tradition. for example, nagarjuna expressed his understanding in terms of "emptiness" - a
term we encounter not only in the perfection of wisdom literature, but even in the pali canon. this is the
double bind in which meta-tradition buddhism finds itself: it explicitly rejects textuality in favor of direct experience, but must perforce
express itself in textual terms. in time, the great tradition will reassert itself, taking the teacher s words and analyzing
them in time-honored fashion until the "poetry" in them is once again lost. and then another enlightened teacher arises ...
thus, establishment and re-enlightening follow each other cyclically. indeed, i would argue that re-enlightenment is not merely a meta-tradition reaction
against great tradition reification, but that it actually needs establishment, even to the point of reification, to set in before
a new outburst of radical insight can occur. without great tradition orthodoxy, the meta-tradition has no terminology with which to
announce the advent of a new stage of transplantation. more fundamentally, until some degree of establishment has occurred, there
