collation were alone, I give you joy of your good fortune. Well deserved,
well deserved! This was coming to the point, and I thought it a
sensible way of expressing himself. To think, said Mr. Pumblechook, after snorting admiration
at me for some moments, that I should have been the humble instrument
of leading up to this, is a proud reward. I begged Mr. Pumblechook
to remember that nothing was to be ever said or hinted, on that
point. My dear young friend, said Mr. Pumblechook, if you will allow me
to call you so- I murmured Certainly, and Mr. Pumblechook took me by
both hands again, and communicated a movement to his waistcoat, which had an
emotional appearance, though it was rather low down, My dear young friend, 271
of 865 Great Expectations rely upon my doing my little all in your
absence, by keeping the fact before the mind of Joseph. - Joseph! said
Mr. Pumblechook, in the way of a compassionate adjuration. Joseph!! Joseph!!! Thereupon he
shook his head and tapped it, expressing his sense of deficiency in Joseph.
But my dear young friend, said Mr. Pumblechook, you must be hungry, you
must be exhausted. Be seated. Here is a chicken had round from the
Boar, here is a tongue had round from the Boar, here s one
or two little things had round from the Boar, that I hope you
may not despise. But do I, said Mr. Pumblechook, getting up again the
moment after he had sat down, see afore me, him as I ever
sported with in his times of happy infancy? And may I - may
I - ? This May I, meant might he shake hands? I consented,
and he was fervent, and then sat down again. Here is wine, said
Mr. Pumblechook. Let us drink, Thanks to Fortune, and may she ever pick
out her favourites with equal judgment! And yet I cannot, said Mr. Pumblechook,
getting up again, see afore me One - and likewise drink to One
- without again expressing - May I - may I - ? 272
of 865 Great Expectations I said he might, and he shook hands with
me again, and emptied his glass and turned it upside down. I did
the same; and if I had turned myself upside down before drinking, the
wine could not have gone more direct to my head. Mr. Pumblechook helped
me to the liver wing, and to the best slice of tongue (none
of those out-of-the-way No Thoroughfares of Pork now), and took, comparatively speaking, no
care of himself at all. Ah! poultry, poultry! You little thought, said Mr.
Pumblechook, apostrophizing the fowl in the dish, when you was a young fledgling,
what was in store for you. You little thought you was to be
refreshment beneath this humble roof for one as - call it a weakness,
if you will, said Mr. Pumblechook, getting up again, but may I? may
I - ? It began to be unnecessary to repeat the form of
saying he might, so he did it at once. How he ever did
it so often without wounding himself with my knife, I don t know.
And your sister, he resumed, after a little steady eating, which had the
honour of bringing you up by hand! It s a sad picter, to
reflect that she s no longer equal to fully understanding the honour. May-
I saw he was about to come at me again, and I stopped
him. 273 of 865 Great Expectations We ll drink her health, said I.
Ah! cried Mr. Pumblechook, leaning back in his chair, quite flaccid with admiration,
that s the way you know em, sir! (I don t know who
Sir was, but he certainly Was not I, and there was no third
person present); that s the way you know the nobleminded, sir! Ever forgiving
and ever affable. It might, said the servile Pumblechook, putting down his
