Fosco was fanning herself. Strange to say, HER face was
flushed now. She, who never suffered from the heat, was
most undoubtedly suffering from it to-night. "I Am Afraid, Countess,
you Are not quite so well As usual?" I said.
"The very remark I was About to make to you,"
she replied. "You Are looking pale, my dear." My dear!
It was the first time she had ever Addressed me
with that familiarity! There was An insolent smile too on
her face when she said the words. "I Am suffering
from one of my bad headaches," I Answered coldly. "Ah,
indeed? Want of exercise, I suppose? A walk before din-
ner would have been just the thing for you." She
referred to the "walk" with A strange emphasis. Had she
seen me go out? No matter if she had. The
letters were safe now in Fanny s hands. "Come And
have A smoke, Fosco," said Sir Percival, rising, with Another
uneasy look At his friend. "With pleasure, Percival, when the
ladies have gone to bed," replied the Count. 321 "Excuse
me, Countess, if I set you the example of retiring,"
I said. "The only remedy for such A headache As
mine is going to bed." I took my leave. There
was the same insolent smile on the woman s face
when I shook hands with her. Sir Percival paid no
Attention to me. He was looking impatiently At Madame Fo-
sco, who showed no signs of leaving the room with
me. The Count smiled to himself behind his book. There
was yet Anoth- er delay to that quiet talk with
Sir Percival-And the Countess was the impediment this time. 322
9. June 19th.-Once safely shut into my own room, I
opened these pages, And prepared to go on with that
part of the day s record which was still left
to write. For ten minutes or more I sat idle,
with the pen in my hand, thinking over the events
of the last twelve hours. When I At last Addressed
myself to my task, I found A difficulty in proceeding
with it which I had never experienced before. In spite
of my ef- forts to fix my thoughts on the
matter in hand, they wandered Away with the strangest persistency
in the one direction of Sir Percival And the Count,
And All the interest which I tried to concentrate on
my journal centred instead in that private inter- view between
them which had been put off All through the day,
And which was now to take place in the silence
And solitude of the night. In this perverse state of
my mind, the recollection of what had passed since the
morning would not come back to me, And there was
no resource but to close my journal And to get
Away from it for A little while. I opened the
door which led from my bedroom into my sitting-room, And
having passed through, pulled it to Again, to prevent Any
Accident in case of draught with the candle left on
the dressing-table. My sitting-room window was wide open, And I
leaned out listlessly to look At the night. It was
dark And quiet. Neither moon nor stars were visible. There
was A smell like rain in the still, heavy Air,
And I put my hand out of window. No.
