on a moments notice, nira." "it s non-alcoholic, adrian. don t go getting all stiff on me. i m not
here to jump you." i sipped and found her selection delightful. "you should understand. under different circumstances, that would be
a most desirable thing." "my grapevine is failing me. just what is going on around here? how can we be
having trouble with main engines and thrusters at the same time?" "computer problems. something s affecting most of the systems
on bread ship. they haven t been able to get a handle on it. that s what the 23:00 meeting
was about." "since i m not back on duty, i wasn t allowed at the meeting." "i, on the other
hand, was forced to go. there was standing room only." "the bastards took the research on the alien data away
from my group and gave it to life sciences. did you know that?" "i really can t help you there,
nira. i m a security officer, remember? that research crap is your line of work, not mine." "wow! a stone
wall, even from you! what the hell is going on up there?" "when do they allow you back on duty?"
"tomorrow. second shift, if eventhing under the bandage looks okay. i ll get an eight inch band aid and be
allowed on limited duty. by the way, the doctor says i m promiscuous, what do you think?" "so tomorrow, i
ll be trying to pry answers out of you instead." "and we will stonewall each other?" "i lost the last
contest. i m the underdog." "you re a difficult man to understand, adrian. i m usually an expert at figuring
people out, but you re different. i had you pegged for a loner, one of those types who goes around
with the shields always up. but, when i got inside last night, there was a different man in there. it
caught me off guard. you ve screwed up my system. i ll probably need more data." "well, good!" "don t
worry about it, though. last night was special. i don t normally take the lead. from now on it will
be up to you to make the move. and please don t assume i m an automatic win. women have
their moods." "no kidding?" she laughed and drew a circle with one finger around the rim of her glass. "i
was married for a little more than three years to a united world diplomat. he spent most of his time
flying back and forth while i spent mine flying up and down. we saw each other so little we kind
of forgot we were married. if there was a statute of limitations on married people who never see each other,
ours would have run out. finally, one day we realized we weren t really married at all, so we divorced
in the most amiable agreement ever made. it s odd, we have the same relationship now that we always had.
it s the story of my life. i keep waiting for life to become what you see in cinemas and
literature. it s just not happening." "they have fooled us. there is no such thing as normal. it s mythology.
in fact, one of my favorite rock stars from long ago once said that life is what happens to you
while you re busy making other plans." "so why haven t you ever been married, adrian?" "that seems to be
the question of the day." "another of which you re not going to answer, i take it?" "marriage is kind
of a big promise for people who spend their days in space. we speed out from the earth going backwards
in time, and then try to catch up with it on the way back in." "i may start calling you
stonewall." she finished her wine, plunked the empty glass down by the computer, and slinked over to the door. "i
ll find you out, adrian. before i m done, i will." she winked and disappeared though the automatic doors, leaving
me to wonder. never tell them the truth. why spend all that time fabricating the false male image of invincibility,
only to turn around and admit you are an insecure, frightened child when it comes to love? i have experienced
my share of pain and fear. i have spun down out of control in a bent and twisted aircraft, not
knowing if a recovery would ever come, wondering if i would feel that short burst of impact with the ground
before i felt the pressure of the eight positive gs it would take to pull out. i have been thrown
from horses who have tried to stomp me after they did, and trained in the marshal arts by masters who
i could not be sure wouldn t kill me by accident. in all of these things, there has been a
reward within the fear, and euphoria from the survival. but in games of the heart, there is a coldness waiting
that sometimes can leave you with nothing. when you crash and burn, you live with the death, forever. of all
the pain i have ever endured, there is nothing to compare to that of the wasted heart. so, you test
the water over and over before you take the leap. i had been willing to take it only once. that
was forever ago. she had all the right flavors, knew all the right buttons to push. had me walking in
her twisted line and liking it. i couldn t wait to sign on for the full cruise. her name was
crystal. she had curly, dark brown, flavorful hair that she kept at shoulder length. naturally tan, perfectly toned skin, five
foot five, deep, dark maroon eyes. and, she had a way of making you feel like an emperor when she
was with you, especially in public. had an ooo-eee little voice that somehow put all the erogenous regions on full
alert. she and her folks held a pending lease on the hawkins space station. it was a worthless piece
