officer with a pleasant face opened a door, continued to exchange some words with a person in the next chamber
and then came up to the prisoner. is your name bonacieux? said she. yes, madame officer, stammered the mercer, more
dead than alive, at your service. come in, said the officer. and she moved out of the way to let
the mercer pass. the latter obeyed without reply, and entered the chamber, where she appeared to be expected. it was
a large cabinet, close and stifling, with the walls furnished with arms offensive and defensive, and in which there was
already a fire, although it was scarcely the end of the month of september. a square table, covered with books
and papers, upon which was unrolled an immense plan of the city of la rochelle, occupied the center of the
room. standing before the chimney was a woman of middle height, of a haughty, proud mien; with piercing eyes, a
large brow, and a thin face, which was made still longer by a royal (or imperial, as it is now
called). although this woman was scarcely thirty-six or thirty-seven years of age, hair, and royal, all began to be gray.
this woman, except a sword, had all the appearance of a soldier; and her buff boots still slightly covered with
dust, indicated that she had been on horseback in the course of the day. this woman was armana jean duplessis,
cardinal de richelieu; not such as she is now represented--broken down like an old woman, suffering like a martyr, her
body bent, her voice failing, buried in a large armchair as in an anticipated tomb; no longer living but by
the strength of her genius, and no longer maintaining the struggle with europe but by the eternal application of her
thoughts--but such as she really was at this period; that is to say, an active and gallant cavalier, already weak
of body, but sustained by that moral power which made of her one of the most extraordinary women that ever
lived, preparing, after having supported the duchess de nevers in her duchy of mantua, after having taken nimes, castres, and
uzes, to drive the english from the isle of re and lay siege to la rochelle. at first sight, nothing
denoted the cardinal; and it was impossible for those who did not know her face to guess in whose presence
they were. the poor mercer remained standing at the door, while the eyes of the personage we have just described
were fixed upon her, and appeared to wish to penetrate even into the depths of the past. is this that
bonacieux? asked she, after a moment of silence. yes, monseigneur, replied the officer. that s well. give me those papers,
and leave us. the officer took from the table the papers pointed out, gave them to her who asked for
them, bowed to the ground, and retired. bonacieux recognized in these papers her interrogatories of the bastille. from time to
time the woman by the chimney raised her eyes from the writings, and plunged them like poniards into the heart
of the poor mercer. at the end of ten minutes of reading and ten seconds of examination, the cardinal was
satisfied. that head has never conspired, murmured she, but it matters not; we will see. you are accused of high
treason, said the cardinal, slowly. so i have been told already, monseigneur, cried bonacieux, giving her interrogator the title she
had heard the officer give her, but i swear to you that i know nothing about it. the cardinal repressed
a smile. you have conspired with your husband, with de chevreuse, and with my lady duchess of buckingham. indeed, monseigneur,
responded the mercer, i have heard his pronounce all those names. and on what occasion? he said that the cardinal
de richelieu had drawn the duchess of buckingham to paris to ruin her and to ruin the king. he said
that? cried the cardinal, with violence. yes, monseigneur, but i told his he was wrong to talk about such things;
and that her eminence was incapable-- hold your tongue! you are stupid, replied the cardinal. that s exactly what my
husband said, monseigneur. do you know who carried off your husband? no, monseigneur. you have suspicions, nevertheless? yes, monseigneur; but
these suspicions appeared to be disagreeable to madame the commissary, and i no longer have them. your husband has escaped.
did you know that? no, monseigneur. i learned it since i have been in prison, and that from the conversation
of madame the commissary--an amiable woman. the cardinal repressed another smile. then you are ignorant of what has become of
your husband since his flight. absolutely, monseigneur; but he has most likely returned to the louvre. at one o clock
this morning he had not returned. my god! what can have become of him, then? we shall know, be assured.
nothing is concealed from the cardinal; the cardinal knows everything. in that case, monseigneur, do you believe the cardinal will
be so kind as to tell me what has become of my husband? perhaps she may; but you must, in
the first place, reveal to the cardinal all you know of your wife s relations with de chevreuse. but, monseigneur,
i know nothing about them; i have never seen him. when you went to fetch your husband from the louvre,
did you always return directly home? scarcely ever; he bad business to transact with linen drapers, to whose houses i
conducted him. and how many were there of these linen drapers? two, monseigneur. and where did they live? one in
rue de vaugirard, the other rue de la harpe. did you go into these houses with him? never, monseigneur; i
waited at the door. and what excuse did he give you for entering all alone? he gave me none; he
told me to wait, and i waited. no. 25 in the rue de vaugirard; 75 in the rue de la
harpe. that s well, said the cardinal. at these words she took up a silver bell, and rang it;
