that was planted in the truck. the truck turns towards the warehouse where mark has brought their car. david says,
"well, what now?" "the interesting part is yet to come. just keep calm," says lance. "oh, yeah, man, real interesting.
that s one shitload of rdx we ve got. i sure hope you know what you re doing." "now don
t get you shorts all in a knot. i ll handle it." says lance. "so you re still not telling
what you ve got planned?" "nope, it s a surprising. you ll know when the time comes." david shrugs his
shoulders and heads back to his apartment wondering what lance is going to do with the kegs. probably move them
to his apartment and keep em for souvenirs, he muses. when ed and jim get to the warehouse, mark and
sid are waiting for them. mark hits the button that opens the large motorized garage door and the truck rolls
in. as the door closes, jim cuts the motor. he and ed hop out. "everything go okay?" mark asks. "no
problemo. we got the kegs delivered, placed the detonator. bunch of dumb asses, no one suspected a thing," says jim
as he tosses the keys to the truck to mark, including the key to the padlock on the rear doors.
"good. here s your keys. you guys better get going," says mark. jim says, "yeah, we want to get into
a motel in time to see the news bulletins. you do think it will make the news?" "oh yeah! it
will make the news. big time. that s gonna be one fucking big blast," says mark. "well then, see ya.
we don t want to miss it," says ed as he and jim leave the warehouse and jog across the
street to their car. mark watches for a moment from the side door. jim and ed head for the i80
westbound on-ramp bound for salt lake. mark shuts and bolts the side door while sid checks on sean tied up
in the back of the van. they then go to joe s office. as they enter, joe says, "everything go
okay?" "every thing s fine. we got the truck, the kegs have been delivered, the driver s safely tied up
in the back of the van. all we do now is wait until after the blast." "think anyone saw the
truck pull in here?" "nah, they came in real quick and that door faces the railroad yards. no one out
there except a passing freight train. anyway, one more truck driving in here is no big deal." "driver secure?" "very,
he ll be no problem," says sid. "good. i m heading home. i ll meet you both back here at
nine-thirty then we ll watch the show," says joe as he gets up, puts out his cigarette and reaches for
his coat. "okay, see you then," says mark as he and sid walk out the door and down the hallway
with joe. "i ll be glad when this business is over," says joe. "ditto, man. but it won t be
long now," says mark. they both leave the warehouse, walk to their cars across the street and drive off. joe
goes home, mark and sid go to their motel to wait. as jim and ed s car pulls onto i80,
jim guns the motor and says, "we need to get to a motel before 10 o clock so we can
watch the blast coverage. most of cable systems in nebraska carry the omaha tv stations so we should be able
to see what happens right away. the cable news networks will probably cut in pretty quick too." "yeah, man, we
ll be famous, too bad no one will know it was us." "oh, word will get around, man. this will
be the biggest fucking blast in history. all ours." "right on, this is our ticket, dude, we ll really be
in demand. no more small time hits, we re in the big time now. this is our big night, i
sure don t want to miss it." says ed as the car gets up to highway speed, heading west towards
the low winter sun. "you are so right, ed, this is our big night. we ll never forget this night,
that s for sure." lance and tony arrive at david s garage in lance s suv. they wait while the
motorized door opens then lance pulls in and parks. tony puts on his ski mask and walks over to the
small office where tom, bob, and the driver are sitting around eating potato chips and watching tv. "looks like you
got kidnapped by a potato chip company," laughs tony looking at the driver. then, turning to tom, he says, "i
take it he s not been any trouble?" "hell no, we ve just been watching tv and eating, mostly," says
tom. "where d the food come from?" "tom went out and got it." "geez, give me some of those chips."
tony leans over and grabs a handful of chips. then he says, "i ll take over for you. your ride
s waiting." tom says, "okay, catch you guys later." tom heads out and over to lance s suv, gets in
and they drive off. the driver looks up at tony and asks, "how long are you gonna keep me?" tony
says, "until about 10 o clock tonight, i guess. then we ll drop you off and you can call your
wife to come get you." "yeah, but what s this all about, really?" "probably better you don t know too
much," says bob. "ohh, right, okay," says the driver. "where do you live?" "council bluffs." "we ll drop you over
there. when you get home, you can call the cops and tell them what you know. by the way, you
do know your truck was hijacked?" "i kind a figured that part out on my own." "when you talk to
the cops, leave out the part about the coffee, chips and cigarettes. just say you were held blindfolded and
