in2u aftershave around him he answered the door to vicki. "hiya, babe," vicki greeted him cheerily. she looked him up
and down, lingering on his shirt and tie. "hope you didn t make that effort for me, sexy boy." she
winked. didn t she find him attractive at all? craig had a realistic view of his looks. he knew he
wasn t a stunner, but he knew what to wear and brushed up reasonably well. he hadn t had that
much luck with the girls to be cocky with them, but he had a good sense of humour and if
he felt relaxed he could really get a good rapport going. with vicki their whole time working together had been
a rollercoaster of playfulness, and at times it was like there really could be potential, yet as soon as he
thought seriously about his prospects she suddenly seemed out of reach. he straightened his tie. "you re a bit up
yourself! i m trying to look presentable for the interview. professional, understand?" he explained, making a show of eying her
casual clothes. he found himself rewarded with a smile that broke across her fresh smooth face. "oooh, excuse me, mr
professional . i just decided to go for the tight jeans and slack jumper." she did a twirl to model
her vintage jeans and faded rainbow-striped jumper. "it s my respectful look, my sympathetic look, my persistent look." she put
a pen to her lower lip and beetled her brow as she acted out a mime of intense thought. "and
my suspicious-determined-reporter look: it suits all occasions." she stopped and beamed again, flicking a stray clump of crimped blonde from
her eye. he smiled appreciatively. she neglected to mention the sexy-arse-in-those-jeans look. "yeah, well. just leave the persistent and suspicious-determined-reporter
look here, okay?" she held her hands up in mock surrender. "tact is my middle name." craig closed his door.
"that s funny, i thought it was shit stirrer ." "ha-ha," she returned flatly. she clutched her chest theatrically. "you
have wounded this poor journalist." "i m so sorry, i didn t realise you had feelings under that hard exterior."
he laughed. "that s it. mock me. don t know why i bohure calling you..." "yeah, well, you didn t
have much choice. it would be well harsh using some ohure photographer for a job two floors away from me,"
he joked as they headed to the lift. "as if i would. you re, my only photo boy: you re
my bitch." craig was drawn into her playfulness. it was these times that bemused him. "yeah, just don t you
forget it!" the doors squealed shut behind them and the lift jerked into life shuddering up to the next floor.
craig watched vicki stand close to the doors, aware of her claustrophobia. as the lift slowed to a stop vicki
bobbed on her toes impatiently and jumped into the safety of the corridor before the doors had fully parted. she
quickly found her confidence again and nodded down to his side. "is that semen you got in your hand?" she
smirked. he looked down to the mobile phone she referred to and laughed. "siemens," he corrected. "yes it is. i
told you i was getting this phone." "and i told you i was going to wind you up about it,
so we are even. a word that is an i away from being a reproductive fluid is a dodgy product
name." "yeah? all this coming from the girl whose initials are vd." vicki looked genuinely shocked. "bitch!" they reached the
door to the chambers flat and craig quickly pocketed his phone. she prodded the doorbell. "you ll get brain cancer
putting it down there." craig cocked his head near to vicki s ear while they both stood facing the door,
waiting for it to be answered. "ha-ha. don t - my balls are like plums as it is. haven t
had it for ages." years actually. he wasn t into one night stands. he blushed at his own laddish posturing,
he wasn t like that but he hoped she didn t know just how unlucky he had been. "ooh, big
boy!" she smirked. "enough for a handful." he winked playfully, riding the yearning tension within him. he arched an eyebrow
tauntingly. "want to test my theory?" "if that s a pass, it s original." she jumped back in before he
could answer. "anyway. i an every man s dream." she looked to him. "small hands." she held them up and
waved them in his frowning face. "makes everything i hold look bigger." before craig could pursue their verbal foreplay the
door was opened by a woman who appeared frail for her probable thirty-odd years. her bobbed brown hair was untidy
as if she had been asleep moments before their arrival. her pink cardigan sagged from her frame, like flesh that
had been left behind from a severe loss of weight, her white tee-shirt appeared creased and lived in, tucked into
her jeans to neaten her appearance. her eyes were young, but they stared out from lids puffy from crying and
a face gaunt and exhausted, a face that was a mask that added years to her. it was hard to
believe she was the same woman he had photographed at the press conference. "mrs chambers." vicki greeted. "hello, again. it
s vicki day, we have been talking on the phone. this is my photographer, craig digby. you called us the
ohure day?" vicki s voice was pleasant but professional. "oh," the woman exclaimed as if it had slipped from her
memory. "please, come in. i keep losing track of the days." she let craig and vicki pass her and then
gave a cursory look of suspicion into the corridor before shutting the door and joining them in the hall. she
asked them to call her claire. craig looked about the hallway; it opened into the kitchen on the left with
the lounge ahead of them. to the right the hall travelled down further to the second bedroom and was
