swear! very glad i should be, sir, to see sir henry on his way back to london again!" "but what is it that alarms you?" "look at sir
charles s death! that was bad enough, for all that the coroner said. look at the noises on the moor at night. there s not a man would
cross it after sundown if he was paid for it. look at this stranger hiding out yonder, and watching and waiting! what s he waiting for? what does
it mean? it means no good to anyone of the name of baskerville, and very glad i shall be to be quit of it all on the day
that sir henry s new servants are ready to take over the hall." "but about this stranger," said i. "can you tell me anything about him? what did
selden say? did he find out where he hid, or what he was doing?" "he saw him once or twice, but he is a deep one, and gives
nothing away. at first he thought that he was the police, but soon he found that he had some lay of his own. a kind of gentleman he
was, as far as he could see, but what he was doing he could not make out." "and where did he say that he lived?" "among the old
houses on the hillside -- the stone huts where the old folk used to live." "but how about his food?" "selden found out that he has got a
lad who works for him and brings him all he needs. i dare say he goes to coombe tracey for what he wants." "very good, barrymore. we may
talk further of this some other time." when the butler had gone i walked over to the black window, and i looked through a blurred pane at the
driving clouds and at the tossing outline of the wind-swept trees. it is a wild night indoors, and what must it be in a stone hut upon the
moor. what passion of hatred can it be which leads a man to lurk in such a place at such a time! and what deep and earnest purpose
can he have which calls for such a trial! there, in that hut upon the moor, seems to lie the very centre of that problem which has vexed
me so sorely. i swear that another day shall not have passed before i have done all that man can do to reach the heart of the mystery.
the extract from my private diary which forms the last chapter has brought my narrative up to the 18th of october, a time when these strange events began
to move swiftly towards their terrible conclusion. the incidents of the next few days are indelibly graven upon my recollection, and i can tell them without reference to
the notes made at the time. i start then from the day which succeeded that upon which i had established two facts of great importance, the one that
mrs. laura lyons of coombe tracey had written to sir charles baskerville and made an appointment with him at the very place and hour that he met his
death, the other that the lurking man upon the moor was to be found among the stone huts upon the hill-side. with these two facts in my possession
i felt that either my intelligence or my courage must be deficient if i could not throw some further light upon these dark places. i had no opportunity
to tell the baronet what i had learned about mrs. lyons upon the evening before, for dr. mortimer remained with him at cards until it was very late.
at breakfast, however, i informed him about my discovery, and asked him whether he would care to accompany me to coombe tracey. at first he was very eager
to come, but on second thoughts it seemed to both of us that if i went alone the results might be better. the more formal we made the
visit the less information we might obtain. i left sir henry behind, therefore, not without some prickings of conscience, and drove off upon my new guest. when i
reached coombe tracey i told perkins to put up the horses, and i made inquiries for the lady whom i had come to interrogate. i had no difficulty
in finding her rooms, which were central and well appointed. a maid showed me in without ceremony, and as i entered the sitting-room a lady, who was sitting
before a remington typewriter, sprang up with a pleasant smile of welcome. her face fell, however, when she saw that i was a stranger, and she sat down
again and asked me the object of my visit. the first impression left by mrs. lyons was one of extreme beauty. her eyes and hair were of the
same rich hazel colour, and her cheeks, though considerably freckled, were flushed with the exquisite bloom of the brunette, the dainty pink which lurks at the heart of
the sulphur rose. admiration was, i repeat, the first impression. but the second was criticism. there was something subtly wrong with the face, some coarseness of expression,
