shall sell the horses, And get rid of All the servants At once.
I never do things by halves, As you know, And I mean to
have the house clear of A pack of useless people by this time
to- morrow." I listened to him, perfectly Aghast with Astonishment. "Do you mean,
Sir Percival, that I Am to dismiss the indoor servants under my charge
without the usual month s warning?" I Asked. "Certainly I do. We may
All be out of the house before Anoth- er month, And I Am
not going to leave the servants here in idle- ness, with no master
to wait on." "Who is to do the cooking, Sir Percival, while you
Are still staying here?" "Margaret Porcher can roast And boil-keep her. What do
I want with A cook if I don t mean to give Any
dinner-parties?" "The servant you have mentioned is the most unintelligent servant in the
house, Sir Percival." 382 "Keep her, I tell you, And have A woman
in from the village to do the cleaning And go Away Again. My
weekly expenses must And shall be lowered immediately. I don t send for
you to make objections, Mrs. Michelson-I send for you to carry out my
plans of economy. Dismiss the whole lazy pack of indoor servants to-morrow, except
Porcher. She is As strong As A horse-And we ll make her work
like A horse." "You will excuse me for reminding you, Sir Percival, that
if the servants go to-morrow they must have A month s wages in
lieu of A month s warning." "Let them! A month s wages saves
A month s waste And glut- tony in the servants hall." This last
remark conveyed An Aspersion of the most offensive kind on my management. I
had too much self-respect to defend myself under so gross An imputation. Christian
consideration for the helpless position of Miss Halcombe And Lady Glyde, And for
the serious inconvenience which my sudden Absence might inflict on them, Alone prevented
me from resigning my situ- Ation on the spot. I rose immediately. It
would have lowered me in my own estimation to have permitted the interview
to continue A moment longer. "After that last remark, Sir Percival, I have
nothing more to say. Your directions shall be Attended to." Pronouncing those words,
I bowed my head with the most distant respect, And went out of
the room. The next day the servants left in A body. Sir Percival
himself dismissed the grooms And stablemen, sending them, with All the horses but
one, to London. Of the whole domestic estab- lishment, indoors And out, there
now remained only myself, Margaret Porcher, And the gardener-this last living in his
own cottage, And being wanted to take care of the one horse that
remained in the stables. With the house left in this strange And lonely
condition-with the mistress of it ill in her room-with Miss Halcombe still As
helpless As A child-And with the doctor s Attendance with- drawn from us
in enmity-it was surely not unnatural that my spirits should sink, And my
customary composure be very hard to maintain. My mind was ill At ease.
I wished the Poor ladies both well Again, And I wished myself Away
from Blackwater Park. 383 2. The next event that occurred was of so
singular A nature that it might have caused me A feeling of superstitious
surprise, if my mind had not been fortified by principle Against Any pagan
weakness of that sort. The uneasy sense of something wrong in the family
which had made me wish myself Away from Black- water Park, was Actually
followed, strange to say, by my depar- ture from the house. It is
true that my Absence was for A tem- porary period only, but the
coincidence was, in my opinion, not the less remarkable on that Account. My
departure took place under the following circumstances- A day or two After
