you were paying attention." william looked at the building that was town hall. the front door was closed, as were
all the windows. there still was snow here and there, and many puddles of water lay evenwhere. "and what do
you mean by walk up there? you can t take her on alone, william." "that is right. but she can
sense you come in. she can t sense me." "hmmf." he had a point there. one she did not like.
"but you are not walking up there." "of course not. i m planning to fly up and go to the
roof. there are probably openings or such to get into the building. and then i can first have a look
what the situation in there "right. and if she catches you?" hilda did not like the plan. "you ll know.
but i ll be careful. i have the advantage of being formerly local and magical." "i still don t like
it, william, but i don t have a better idea. please be careful, sweet wizard of mine." she hugged him.
"you know you need me." william was taken aback by her choice of words for a moment, then grinned. "i
ll be careful. promise." he got on his broom, flew down the side of the building and worked his way
around town hall through streets and alleyways he remembered. then he reached his target and flew up along the blind
sidewall. once upon the roof, he put his broom down and walked around, looking for an opening. fortune was with
him as he located a hatch, probably for maintenance. it willingly opened for his wand. quickly he went inside, after
looking for hilda who was almost falling off the other building, so far did she lean forward to see what
he was doing. inside the building hung a rather unpleasant smell. william did not recognise it. he used some magic
to make his nose less sensitive to it, because otherwise he would have started to vomit, he was sure of
that. the attic of the building was deserted. that was to be expected, so be located the stairwell of the
building and carefully went down one flight of stairs. william had never been inside the town hall before, so he
had to take gambles and guesses as he opened the door to the corridor that led to the offices. he
did peek through the window and saw nobody. in this case it meant little to nothing. as he opened the
door, the obnoxious smell became more prominent. he also saw strange pink blotches on the floor. his wand told him
that these things were not made to be stepped upon. even without the reason behind that, he trusted his wand.
he went back to the roof to collect his broom. hilda was surprised to see her wizard come back up
and pick up the broom. she sensed all kinds of things through the bond, but he was too focused to
inform her, and she did not want to break his concentration. there was too much at stake in that building,
so she had to wait. it was hard on her. william had returned to the door behind which lay the
pink-blotched corridor. he lifted off and floated through the corridor, keeping all his senses tuned to anything that might be
out of the ordinary. he now also relayed as much as he could to hilda, as she might be able
to pick something up that he missed. william found two offices with people lying over their desks. they had been
throwing up. he did not feel up to check if they were sleeping or otherwise immobile. he just registered them
there and went on. there were only two offices with five people in total. as there was nothing to do
here, he headed back to the stairs and went down a floor. there his wand did its interpretation of lights
flashing and all alarms going off. obviously there was something on this floor that needed special attention, he was certain
of that before he reached the door with the window. as he looked through said window, he knew he had
struck gold. black gold in this case... the entire corridor was black. there were fire-pits in the carpet; several people
lay in the corridor. they did not move, and william feared the worst. slowly he opened the door. there was
silence. not even an echo of anything. hilda, on the roof of the other building, froze. "she s there, william.
she s there. whatever you do, be careful and ready to run. she s there, william." william caught what hilda
was saying and feeling. he would be careful. despite the strange situation, a thought came up to him. how would
harry potter handle this? there was no invisibility cloak around, so that idea was out the window. william needed to
see what was going on without being seen. then a wicked smile formed on his face. of course. that was
the perfect idea. hilda, on the roof, sensed what was going on inside william. his idea took shape. "oh, no.
you re not going to salt an elf, he s going to!" she stared at the building opposite the road.
"i m rubbing off on him." she did not sound as if that were a good thing. william had his
wand in hand. "right. let s see if we can do a very headless nick..." slowly a ghostly figure took
shape in front of him. it carried its head under an arm. it wasn t much of a ghost as
william was not trained in them, but he managed to see through the eyes in the head. it did make
him dizzy, until he noticed that closing his own eyes helped. from behind the closed door, william floated his ghost
into the hall. it went sideways, so he had a good view of the rooms that had once been offices.
hilda was not sure what william was doing or seeing, he was too focused on his actions. it unnerved
