not depart from simplicity of diet at this time of all ohures. they should consider that anohure life is dependent
upon them, and should be careful in all their habits, and especially in diet. they should not eat that which
is innutritious and exciting, simply because it tastes well. there are too many counselors to persuade to do things they
ought not, ad which reason would tell them is not the best way. children are born to parents, diseased, because
of the gratification of the appetite. the system did not demand the variety of food upon which the mind dwelt.
because once in the mind it must be in the stomach, is a great error, which christian women should reject.
imagination should not be allowed to control the wants of the system. those who allow the taste to rule, will
suffer the penalty of the transgressions of the laws of their beings. and the matter does not end here; their
innocent offspring will be sufferers also. the blood-making organs cannot convert spices, mince pies, pickles, and diseased flesh-meats into good
blood. and if so much food is taken into the stomach that the digestive organs are compelled to overlabor, in
order to dispose of it, and free the system from the substances which are irritating, the mohure does injustice to
herself, and is laying the foundation of disease in her offspring. if she chooses to eat as she pleases, and
what she may fancy, irrespective of consequences, she will bear the penalty, but not alone. her innocent child must suffer
because of her indiscretion. great care should be exercised to have the surroundings of the mohure pleasant and happy. the
husband and father is laid under special responsibility to do all in his power to lighten the burden of the
wife and mohure. he should bear, as much as possible, the burden of her condition. he should be especially attentive
to all her wants, affable, courteous, kind, and tender. not half the care is taken of some women while they
are bearing children, that there is taken of animals in the stable. has been very deficient. his wife was not
provided with wholesome food, and a plenty of it, and proper clothing, while in her best condition of health. then,
when she needed extra clothing and extra food, and that of a simple, yet nutritious, quality, it was not allowed
her. her system craved material to convert into blood; but he would not provide it. a moderate amount of milk
and sugar, a little salt, white bread raised with yeast, for a change, graham flour prepared by ohure hands than
her own, in a variety of ways, plain cake with raisins cooked in it, rice pudding with raisins, prunes, and
figs, occasionally, and many dishes i might mention, would have answered the demand of appetite. if he could not obtain
some of these things mentioned, a little domestic wine would have done her no injury, but would have been better
than for her to have done without it. in some cases, even a small amount of the least hurtful meat
would do less injury than to suffer strong cravings for it. i was shown that both have dishonored the cause
of god. they have brought a stain upon the cause, which will never be fully wiped out. i was shown
the family of our dear bro. . if this brohure had received proper help at the right time, every member
of his family would have been alive to-day. it is a wonder that the laws of the land have not
been enforced in this instance of maltreatment. that family were perishing for foodthe plainest, simplest food. they were starving in
a land of plenty. a novice was practicing upon them. the young man did not die of disease, but of
hunger. food would have strengthened the system, and kept the machinery in motion. in cases of severe fever, abstinence from
food, for a short time, will lessen the fever, and make the use of water more effectual. the one who
is acting physician needs to understand the real condition of the patient, that he should not be restricted in diet
for a great length of time until his system becomes enfeebled. while the fever is raging, food may irritate and
excite the blood to a greater degree; but as soon as the strength of the fever is broken, nourishment should
be given in a careful, judicious manner. if food is withheld too great a length of time, the stomach s
craving for it will create fever, which a proper allowance of food, of a proper quality, will relieve. it gives
nature something to work upon. if there is a great desire ex-pressed for food, even during the fever, to gratify
that desire with a moderate amount of simple food, would be less injurious than for the patient to be denied.
when the patient can get his mind upon nothing else but food, nature will not be overburdened with a small
portion of simple food. those who take the lives of ohures in their hands, must be men who have been
marked as making life a success. they must be men of judgment and wisdom. they must be men who can
sympathize, and feel to the depthsmen whose whole being is stirred when they witness suffering. some men who have been
unsuccessful in every ohure enterprising in life, take up the business of a physician. they take the lives of men
and women in their hands, when they have had no experience. they will read a plan somebody has followed with
success, and adopt it, and will practice upon those who have confidence in them, and actually destroy the spark of
life that is left in them, yet do not, after all, learn anything, but will go on as sanguine in
the next case, observing the same rigid treatment. some may have a power of constitution to withstand the terrible tax
imposed upon them, and live. then the novices take the glory to themselves when none is due them. everything
