take the money of the american gis. johnny had decided it was time for a guided tour of the city
of kadena in which he seemed to hold a sizable financial interest. everywhere they went, all of the okinawans the
three men met, knew johnny stump. "i used to own that bar on the corner." johnny told brad and dan
while they devoured huge plates of chicken fried rice, which just happened to be-on-the house, in the neat clean okinawan
restaurant he had taken them to. "i gave it to my wife when we got divorced." johnny added. brad already
knew that americans could not own property on okinawa, so the bar must have been in john s wife s
name to begin with, but before he could ask further johnny added. "it makes enough money to support her and
my two kids. besides, it was in her name and without her i wouldn t have had anything." there was
a great sadness in johnny s voice as he went on. "i drank too much, still do. she couldn t
handle it anymore and i couldn t quit." johnny looked away into some private place of his own choosing. "johnny?
how do they get so many girls to work the bars? is the money that good?" "not really, brad. most
of the girls are in hock up to their cute little boobs to the bar." "the stories the girls tell
us and what we hear from other gis is right, brad." dan interjected. "yumi and i had to pay off
takusan to get her out of the bar." brad watched his friend as he spoke. it was the first time
that dan had mentioned the fact that yumi had worked in a bar, or that he had paid off her
bar debt. the strain on him was obvious in his clenched fists and tight jaw muscles. "it s a long
story, brad. and complicated to understand." johnny stump went on after a brief pause when dan had stopped talking. brad
had listened to what most of the gis that cared enough accepted as the truth. the bar owners and bar
mama-sans were involved in a virtual slavery ring. that fefemale oriental children, even now, in the 1960 s, were not
worth much and were still considered to be a burden on the family. now he was with two men who
were his friends and whom he respected, and they each had first hand knowledge of what was a reality. "a
lot of okinawan families, especially farm families, are walking a tightrope between barely subsisting and not making it." johnny started.
"a way for the families to raise some cash in hard times is to borrow money from the bar owners
or the bar mama-sans. the collateral for these loans is the services of their daughters. the fathers of the girls
make the best deal they can. which means they borrow as much money as they can." brad leaned closer to
hear. john was speaking softly, though no one was close to the three friend s table. "the prettier and more
personable the daughter is, the more she s worth as collateral." "so who is responsible for paying the loan, johnny?"
brad impatiently interrupted. "who has to pay it back?" "the daughter, that s who, brad." the more brad heard, and
the more he thought about the okinawan people, the men, the women and the girls in the bars he had
became friends with, the sadder the tale became. "it isn t a simple loan like buying a car." johnny went
on. "or even a personal debt on which a set amount is paid each month so that in a given
period of time the debt is resolved. the girls are paid a cut on the drinks their customers drink or
buy the girls. and of course a cut of whatever the girls get from selling their bodies is given to
the bar. if a gi takes a girl out of the bar for the night, to take her to a
movie or to dinner the gi or his girl has to pay the bar for her time. all of these
things were income for the girls and a percentage of these earnings were kept by mama-san as payment against the
loan. unfortunately it doesn t stop there. many of the girls have never had any extras or niceties such as
their own bed, a pretty dress, or even a simple pair of earrings. consequently, they borrow more money from the
bar mama-san so they can buy the niceties or even the bare essentials that a working girl needs. a good
double bed is a necessity. how can they entertain a man overnight without a comfortable place to make love and
sleep? of course mama-san is quite happy to increase the girl s depth of indebtedness." "the working girls in the
bars also make extra money by taking their boy friends to one of the local hotels where they get a
cut of the room rent." dan added. "you guys ready to go? i want to show you a very nice
bar which also belongs to my wife. she bought it after she left me. it s the brown derby." i
know johnny is divorced, but he always refers to his ex as "his wife", in the present. brad thought as
he watched johnny who had again retreated into that place of his where he never seemed to invite anybody else
to go. after the bright, mid-afternoon sun, brad s eyes were having trouble adjusting to the dim interior of the
brown derby bar. he could barely make out the features of her face when he turned to face her, but
it was obvious even in the dimness of the bar that she was more than very pretty. "may i sit
down, please?" she asked. her voice sounded as if she was coaxing a tiny kitten to her hand. soft and
very gentle. her eyes were a direct match to her voice, soft and gentle and the color of antique
