year following his death, i saw my brother abu lahab in a dream. he was in a horrid state. how
were you treated? i asked him. for freeing suwaybah out of celebration for muhammad s birth , he told me,
my torment is lightened, every monday. on that day i am freshened with some water that springs forth from the
small hole between my thumb and index finger. "44 ibn jazari comments: "if the torment of an enemy of the
prophet of the calibre of abu lahab is alleviated simply for the joy he showed on the day of the
prophet s birth, actuated solely by feelings tribal, one must ponder on the unimaginable kinds of generous blessings awaiting a
believer, who from respect to the night of the prophet s birth, opens the feast of his heart for the
love of the eternal grace of the universe. what must be done, during the month of the blessed birth, is
to revive enthusiasm by engaging in spiritual talks, to arrange feasts for fellow believers in order to make the most
of the concealed blessings of the month, to mend broken hearts by doing all sorts of good to the poor,
orphans, the lonesome and the helpless, to make them happy by handing them charity, and to read and the noble
prophet had endeared himself to the companions to such a deep extent that its profundity is simply incommunicable. such love,
which is otherwise impossible, can only be established through divine love and inspiration. like a fortress knit with love, the
companions had formed a tight bond of loyalty around the messenger of allah (pbuh) becoming stars in the skies of
his abidance, so great, that among them there were those who, in order to breathe in the zest of abiding
by him, walked the path he walked, stopped where he stopped and smelt the rose he smelt, simply because he
had done those very things. expressions of the epic love felt by the companions for the blessed prophet (pbuh) are
innumerable. provided below are just a few examples: the honourable aisha used to describe the beauty of the prophet s
(pbuh) countenance as: as is evident in the word of tawhid, the noble prophet (pbuh) is certainly a "servant" insofar
as he is human, though in essence, he is "the peak of prophets". the great aziz mahmud hudayi gives poetic
articulation to his experience of gazing at the realm of these mysteries: worldly, metaphorical loves, evolving them to greatness. the
moment a believer begins to tremble before the spiritual presence of the blessed prophet (pbuh) and sense inexpressibly beautiful feelings
budding in his heart, and empties his soul of all appearances and silhouettes belonging to the self, is surely when
he is on the way of becoming one with him, of acquiring a share of his love. "both worlds were
created for one heart. think of the meaning of the expression were it not for you, i would not have
created the universe ", says mawlana rumi(as)quddisa sirruh-. for that reason is the love of the messenger of allah (pbuh)
is the greatest means to granting one honor in both worlds and in honor of their unfathomable love for the
prophet did the companions soar to high ranks. below is another of those numerous scenes from the matchless love of
the companions: on the way to the cave of sawr on the journey of hegira, abu bakr(ra)was walking behind the
prophet (pbuh) one moment and in front of him the next. "why are you walking like that?" the prophet (pbuh)
asked abu bakr d, noticing his distinct manner. "i fear the idolaters may catch up to you from behind, which
is when i walk from behind you", said abu bakr d. "and when i think they may be staking out
ahead of you, i then quickly move in front of you." it was evening when they eventually arrived at the
mouth of the cave. "please wait here until i clean out the cave, messenger of allah", abu bakr(ra)told him. he
then meticulously sorted out the cave, checking for holes, blocking them one by one with some fabric he instinctively ripped
off from his clothes. he ended up using his entire shroud in blocking the holes, leaving all but one, which
he used the sole of his foot to block. "you can now come inside, messenger of allah." realizing the situation
in the morning, the noble prophet asked amazedly: "where is your shroud, abu bakr?" abu bakr(ra)recounted what had happened the
evening before. immensely touched by his act of great magnanimity, the messenger of allah (pbuh) lifted his hands and prayed
for likewise, so moving is the devotion felt for the prophet (pbuh) by a woman, whose husband, father and two
sons were martyred at the battlefield of uhud: muhammad has been killed! was the dreadful news that shook the skies
of medina on the day of uhud, with screams of panic reaching the heavens. everyone had poured out onto the
streets, in hope of receiving some news from those coming in to the town. even though sumayra (ra), an ansari
woman, had received the terrible news that her husband, two sons and father had all been slain martyred at the
field of uhud, she had little taken heed; her mind preoccupied with the real anxiety, her heart racing for the
wellbeing of the messenger of allah (pbuh) : "is he all right?" she was repeatedly asking. "alhamdulillah he is alive
and well", the incoming companions were answering, "just as you wish he is." "my heart will not rest at ease
until i see him. show me the messenger of allah", she then replied, still nervous. when they did show her
the blessed prophet (pbuh) the courageous sumayra raced towards him and grabbing hold of the edge of his shirt exclaimed:
"may my parents be sacrificed for you, messenger of allah! so long as you are alive, nothing can make me
worry me anymore." (waqidi, i 292; haythami, vi, 115) anas ibn malik(ra)narrates: "a man came to the messenger of
