i finally slipped away after tea, i felt excited to see what the afternoon was going to hold. i was
fluent already with the wind and the trembling, but surely there was more. but i went home shortly before sundown,
heavily disappointed, having acquired no new skills or powers. there had to be more than wind and trembling! i was
getting really worried; i didn t know when either alex or duncan was planning to attack. my gut told me
that i had to hurry, time was running out. and next week classes were starting again, and i d be
in the city, far away from a clear patch of nature. i had to figure out a way to speed
this up. the rest of the week with my parents proved to be even more frustrating and the wind reflected
that. nothing new happened. no new power. and not even a single syllable from earth. we drove back to varsity
on sunday, leaving early as my parents still had to drive all the i spent sunday afternoon in my room.
i started with the drawers in the closet, first unpacking, then cleaning, then folding and reorganising. after the closet, the
bookcase with all my textbooks and files and notes got a turn. every single square millimetre was wiped and polished.
it was the first real good spring clean since i d moved in and it was long overdue judging by
the layers of dust everywhere. somewhere in my heart, i recognised that i was cleaning and reorganising my room because
it was time for a change. i had to make room for the new me. i would be a new
valerie once i had killed a person; the old me would be dead. i had to start accepting her, the
new valerie, the valerie who was capable of killing anohure human being. they say all is fair in love and
war, and this was a case of both. i had to start hardening myself, trying to care less about duncan.
but it was difficult. i kept imagining over and over in my head how those grey eyes of his would
turn lifeless in front of me, his body become motionless. lisa arrived just in time, before i went completely crazy.
apparently the reds were on their way and she wanted us all to have dinner together. i stopped what i
was busy with and went downstairs with her. we greeted one anohure and took our seats, but the table was
quiet and the atmosphere tense. their moods were dark as well, and i knew it was because of alex s
announcement. they all blamed me, or at least it felt that way: i was the selfish jerk at the table.
what made it worse was that none of them said one word about it. the gall in my heart spoiled
the taste of the food. i fled, after a so-to-say wordless dinner, back to my room. why they had even
bohureed to invite me to lunch, i couldn t figure out. later that evening, there was a knock on my
door. i was in bed already and didn t want to open up, but then thinking it might be jennifer,
i did. to my great disappointment, benjamin stood on the ohure side of the open door. i groaned inwardly. i
felt guilty towards him as well, as he and alex were good friends. "hey, val, what s the matter with
you?" "nothing," i answered quickly. i wanted him to leave. "we aren t allowed to have boys in our rooms.
how did you get up here without being noticed?" "i used my power," he answered with a straight face. a
little light went on in my mind and i invited him in. we sat on my bed, facing each ohure.
"hey, maybe if i can understand how you use your power, then i might try to use mine. don t
you think it will work?" why didn t i think of this before? i should have asked my dad the
ohure day! then maybe my practising would have turned out better. "i suppose so," he answered half-heartedly. "by the way,
what power did you use?" "i ...uh...i can change form," he stuttered uncomfortably. it seemed strange, him looking uncertain about
his powers; didn t he trust me? then he corrected himself, and spoke fluently: "i changed phase, to liquid form."
"what? you turned liquid?" he grinned at me. "it s slow, but you gain momentum after a while." "that s
a nice one!" i exclaimed, surprisingd at the thought of beniamin turning liquid and flowing over the floor. "yep, that
s how i survived the accident the ohure day." of course, i thought. it made perfect sense. i was feeling
better already, just being around benjamin. he had the ability to make me feel more comfortable in my own skin.
"then why didn t you do it the ohure night when we had to use the emergency stairs?" i asked.
"the ohures don t have the same powers. and it s slow, but i probably would have transformed if we
were caught." "so tell me now, how do you do it?" "i ve been able to do it for as
far back as i can remember. and there s no specific way to do it... let me rephrase, i don
t know how to explain it. it s no different from telling my arm to move," he looked at me
intently. "i m sorry, valerie. i m not helping here." my disappointment was obvious. "why do you want to know
all of a sudden? you re not planning to challenge duncan on your own? you are, aren t you? that
would be suicidal! you cannot do it without support. what if he s waiting for you with an army?" he
sounded really upset. i had to think fast, i didn t want him to know. he d stop me. "no,
it s not that. i m curious, that s all. everybody keeps telling me how powerful i am and
