the passage. Kitty would have gone into the next room,
but there the English governess was giving Tanya a lesson.
Well, come into the garden. In the garden they came
upon a peasant weeding the path. And no longer considering
that the peasant could see her tear-stained and his agitated
face, that they looked like people fleeing from some disaster,
they went on with rapid steps, feeling that they must
speak out and clear up misunderstandings, must be alone together,
and so get rid of the misery they were both
feeling. We can t go on like this! It s
misery! I am wretched; you are wretched. What for? she
said, when they had at last reached a solitary garden
seat at a turn in the lime tree avenue. 1299
of 1759 Anna Karenina But tell me one thing: was
there in his tone anything unseemly, not nice, humiliatingly horrible?
he said, standing before her again in the same position
with his clenched fists on his chest, as he had
stood before her that night. Yes, she said in a
shaking voice; but, Kostya, surely you see I m not
to blame? All the morning I ve been trying to
take a tone...but such people ...Why did he come? How
happy we were! she said, breathless with the sobs that
shook her. Although nothing had been pursuing them, and there
was nothing to run away from, and they could not
possibly have found anything very delightful on that garden seat,
the gardener saw with astonishment that they passed him on
their way home with comforted and radiant faces. 1300 of
1759 Anna Karenina Chapter 15 After escorting his wife upstairs,
Levin went to Dolly s part of the house. Darya
Alexandrovna, for her part, was in great distress too that
day. She was walking about the room, talking angrily to
a little girl, who stood in the corner roaring. And
you shall stand all day in the corner, and have
your dinner all alone, and not see one of your
dolls, and I won t make you a new frock,
she said, not knowing how to punish her. Oh, she
is a disgusting child! she turned to Levin. Where does
she get such wicked propensities? Why, what has she done?
Levin said without much interest, for he had wanted to
ask her advice, and so was annoyed that he had
come at an unlucky moment. Grisha and she went into
the raspberries, and there...I can t tell you really what
she did. It s a thousand pities Miss Elliot s
not with us. This one sees to nothing-she s a
machine.... Figurez-vous que la petite?.. And Darya Alexandrovna described Masha
s crime. That proves nothing; it s not a question
of evil propensities at all, it s simply mischief, Levin
assured her. 1301 of 1759 Anna Karenina But you are
upset about something? What have you come for? asked Dolly.
What s going on there? And in the tone of
her question Levin heard that it would be easy for
him to say what he had meant to say. I
ve not been in there, I ve been alone in
the garden with Kitty. We ve had a quarrel for
the second time since...Stiva came. Dolly looked at him with
her shrewd, comprehending eyes. Come, tell me, honor bright,
