"it s the only poem of his i can still remember, but only the first verse. for some reason i
ll never forget it. i sometimes think of it when i think of you. let me say it in english
first and then try to translate. "i wonder, by my troth, what thou and i did, till we lov d?
were we not wean d till then? but suck d on country pleasures, childishly? or snorted we in the seven
sleepers den? twas so; but this, all pleasures fancies be; if ever any beauty i did see, which i desir
d, and got, twas but a dream of thee." she listened to the hard english rhythm and then to his
translation, awkward and halting. then she was silent for a moment, floating her hand across the surface of the pond.
"you know, i also wonder now what i did before i met you. before i held you." she slipped her
hands about his neck, and as she did he drew her up out of the water and cradled her against
him. then he lifted her, her body still strewn with rose petals, and carried her slowly up the marble stairs
to the couch of akman. he felt her cling to him like no woman ever had, and as he placed
her on the bed, she took his face in her hands and kissed him for a long moment. then he
heard her whisper. "tonight we will know just each other. and there will be nothing else." and they gave each
to each until there was nothing more to give because each was the other. together, complete. he was on the
quarterdeck, the whipstaff aching against his hand, the mainsail furled as storm winds lashed the waist of the ship with
wave after powerful wave. the ship was the queen s hope, his vessel when he sailed for the levant company,
and the rocks that towered off his starboard bow were gibraltar. he shouted into the dark for the quartermaster to
reef the tops ls, and he leaned on the whipstaff to bring her about, but neither responded. he had no
crew. he was being swept, helpless, toward the empty darkness that lay ahead. another wave caught him across the face,
and somewhere in the dark came a screech, as though the sea had given up some dying leviathan beast. his
seaboots were losing their hold on the quarterdeck, and now the whipstaff had grown sharp talons that cut into his
hand. then a woman s voice, a distant siren calling him. again the screech and then yet another wave cut
across his face. the water tasted of roses. . . . he jerked violently awake. on his hand a green
parrot was perched, preening itself and ruffling its feathers. and from the pool below shirin was flinging handfuls of water
up over the side of the platform, laughing as she tried to splash his face. she was floating, naked, below
him, her hair streaming out across the surface of the water, tangled among the drifting rose petals. he looked about
and saw his own wet clothes, mingled among her silks and jewels. for a moment he felt again the terror
of the dream, the rudderless ship impelled by something beyond control, and then he caught the edge of the platform
and slipped over the side. the water was cool against his skin and involuntarily he caught his breath. then he
reached out and wrapped her in his arms, pulling her against him. she turned her face to his, twined her
hair around his head, and crushed his lips with her own. just as suddenly, she threw back her head and
laughed with joy. he found himself laughing with her. "why don t we both just stay? i don t have
to be back in agra until the wedding. we could have a week." he studied the perfect lines of her
face, the dark eyes at once defiant and anxious, and wished he could hold her forever. the worshipful east india
company be damned. "but we both have things we must do." she revolved in the flowered water and drew her
face above his. she kissed him again, languorously. then she drew herself out of the water and twisted a wrap
around her, covering her breasts. "both you and i." "and what s this thing you have to do?" her eyes
shadowed. "one thing i must try to do is convince samad he cannot stay here any longer. he has to
go south, where prince jadar can protect him. but he refuses to listen. and time is growing short now. i
truly fear for what may happen to him after the wedding. the persian shi ite mullahs will certainly be powerful
enough then to demand he be tried and executed on charges of heresy. for violating some obscure precept of islamic
law. it will be the end for him." she paused. "and for anyone who has helped him." "then if he
won t leave, at least you should." he lifted himself out of the water and settled beside her on the
marble paving. "why don t you come back to england with me? when the fleet from bantam makes landfall at
surat, arangbar will surely have the courage to sign the firman, and then my mission will be finished. it should
only be a matter of weeks, regardless of what the portugals try to do." she studied the water of the
pool with sadness in her eyes and said nothing for a moment as she kicked the surface lightly. "neither of
us is master of what will happen. things are going to soon be out of control. for both of us.
things are going to happen that you will not understand." hawksworth squinted through the half-light. "what s going to happen?"
"who can know? but i would not be surprised to see the prince betrayed totally, in one final act that
will eventually destroy him. he is too isolated. too weak. and when that happens we re all doomed. even
