that half-wit dog, hurts that stupid woman, it s all over. "spike!" she needed to catch him, to save him,
to save her. then the stupidest thing happened. the woman and dobie, sure, of course, they could outrun the puppy
bearing down on them, sprinted as if lives were really on the line. like one heat-seeking missile, short-legged spike turned,
no hesitations, up the next street. the red plastic leash handle bopped away down the asphalt, soggy leaves given flight,
and ngo pressed on with her lung-aching best to stop the speedster. the woman, her dobie, both long-legged, gained a
half-block lead. then they turned right. at knott, the quick pair got an opening between cars almost without slowing and
disappeared. then trains of cars both ways. ngo bit her lip. spike! he doesn t know about cars. the worst
happened. he kept running-no pause-between cars on knott. one little brown car slammed on its brakes, skidded sideways, and stopped,
engine-dead. the plastic leash handle banged away the other side of the street. more cars kept ngo from crossing. where
did spike go? at last, after a gray monolithic suburban, enough of an opening to race across. she squinted. nothing.
that sound of the leash gone too. what happened? he did get bit! he s dying somewhere up there next
to the gutter. ngo s head hung down. every step she now took was a reluctant step. ready for the
heart-breaking news, ngo stood bristle tense in the examining room, its claustrophobic white walls stencilled everywhere with paw prints. dr.
benoit, lanky figure in a bluish lab coat, seemed an okay choice as the closest vet listed in the yellow
pages. he palmed the steel stethoscope disk against the broad chest of spike and listened. spike squirmed. "airways are a
bit raspy. doesn t seem to be any distress, though. again, what happened exactly?" "he got away from me this
morning, goes after another dog. he nearly gets hit by a car, then disappears." ngo flailed her arm in emphasis.
"i find him lying on ground, wheezing away, foam on his lips like he has trouble breathing." "what did you
do?" "i don t do anything. i don t know what to do. so i just stay with him. maybe
fifteen minutes. he starts breathing okay and finally stands up. so i thought it okay to take him home. i
carried him, he liked that, then i called you." "okay, mornings, pollen is usually not the problem." he had to
stay firm with spike. the determined dog wanted out; he clawed the countertop. benoit defeated that. he buckled under spike
s front legs. ngo smiled at the doctor s confident way. "i think we re looking at an asthma episode
brought on by exercise." "you mean spike can t exercise? "no, by no means. he s simply one of those
dogs that can t take hard exercise, emphasis on hard, like running." "walking then okay?" "absolutely." benoit smoothed spike s
large head and floppy, unpricked ears, then patted his husky withers. "gotta keep his weight down." "so that s it.
he can t run anymore with me." "not unless he outgrows the asthma. fifty percent of puppies do." "i d
hoped for a companion jogging." "walking companion okay?" benoit grinned like ngo might give up jogging for walking too. boomba,
boomba, boomba came the heavy sounds sneaking up behind ngo out for a leafy walk with spike. a red honda
civic hatchback, aggressively lowered, sporting flashy chromed wheels, stopped. "chao cO," a male voice, passenger side, called out. young, hoody-looking,
black hair, long on top, slicked back, some of that vietnamese gangster style. ngo shuddered: the bad apples of her
own people. they had forgotten too much about what it meant to be vietnamese. they wanted to be american in
the wrong ways. the greeter, the driver both slumped in the car seats like they were off to a drive-by
shooting. she had to ignore them. ngo furrowed her brow, turned away. okay, so they guess right i m vietnamese,
speak the language. i don t need to talk to them. "chao cO," the guy said once more, persistent. politely
ignoring them would only provoke. she glanced their way to acknowledge them. the showy car crept along and matched her
steps. "you speak vietnamese?" the passenger asked in a thin voice. ngo shook her head. not to you. good. they
think i m white-bread vietnamese, only speak english. she kept walking, so did spike. "excuse me, miss, you get that
dog where? we like one." ngo arched an eyebrow at the boomba, boomba, boomba hip-hop duo. this is silly stuff.
spike doesn t keep bad guys away, he attracts them. like snakes in this pocket-rocket gangster car, nothing else to
do, they follow me home, i don t get rid of them. "you sure you want pit bull, this dog
very dangerous." "yes, pit bull, big bites." boomba, boomba, boomba. the driver fussed with dash buttons for the sound system.
she missed something the passenger said. "that s what we want, protect our business." she flashed a wry smile. business,
what business? shake down the asian store owners, protection money? maybe car thieves. "you have to find dog breeder," she
said louder. "don t remember name, but you can do what i did" "what?" she clenched spike s leash. the
dog pulled away, ready to move on. had spike tired of sniffing for dog dirt in the grass? "just buy
nickel ads, see under dogs. you know nickel ads?" "yeah, nickel ads, i know," the thin voice said clearly-the driver
had now cut off the hip-hop. "people sell stuff they steal at night . . ." the black-haired slickster laughed,
something he must have known nothing about. "get a copy, call those places that sell pit bulls." "you pay how
much?" "one-fifty." she held fast to spike s leash, out like a tightwire. the puppy wanted to walk and now
a price on his head too? would he understand, her needing to make this demeaning admission to lose these
