not an english failing, but the hussar captain raised his hilt in a salute as he rode past the blood-soaked ring. the british general sent home dispatches to
his government, and so did the chief of the hadendowas, though the style and manner differed somewhat in each. the sheik kadra of the hadendowa people to mohammed
ahmed, the chosen of allah, homage and greeting, (began the latter). know by this that on the fourth day of this moon we gave battle to the kaffirs
who call themselves inglees, having with us the chief hussein with ten thousand of the faithful. by the blessing of allah we have broken them, and chased them
for a mile, though indeed these infidels are different from the dogs of egypt, and have slain very many of our men. yet we hope to smite them
again ere the new moon be come, to which end i trust that thou wilt send us a thousand dervishes from omdurman. in token of our victory i
send you by this messenger a flag which we have taken. by the colour it might well seem to have belonged to those of the true faith, but
the kaffirs gave their blood freely to save it, and so we think that, though small, it is very dear to them. when the great wars of the
spanish succession had been brought to an end by the treaty of utrecht, the vast number of privateers which had been fitted out by the contending parties found
their occupation gone. some took to the more peaceful but less lucrative ways of ordinary commerce, others were absorbed into the fishing fleets, and a few of the
more reckless hoisted the jolly rodger at the mizzen, and the bloody flag at the main, declaring a private war upon their own account against the whole human
race. with mixed crews, recruited from every nation, they scoured the seas, disappearing occasionally to careen in some lonely inlet, or putting in for a debauch at some
outlying port, where they dazzled the inhabitants by their lavishness, and horrified them by their brutalities. on the coromandel coast, at madagascar, in the african waters, and above
all in the west indian and american seas, the pirates were a constant menace. with an insolent luxury they would regulate their depredations by the comfort of the
seasons, harrying new england in the summer, and dropping south again to the tropical islands in the winter. they were the more to be dreaded because they had
none of that discipline and restraint which made their predecessors, the buccaneers, both formidable and respectable. these ishmaels of the sea rendered an account to no man, and
treated their prisoners according to the drunken whim of the moment. flashes of grotesque generosity alternated with longer stretches of inconceivable ferocity, and the skipper who fell into
their hands might find himself dismissed with his cargo, after serving as boon companion in some hideous debauch, or might sit at his cabin table with his own
nose and his lips served up with pepper and salt in front of him. it took a stout seaman in those days to ply his calling in the
caribbean gulf. such a man was captain john scarrow, of the ship morning star, and yet he breathed a long sigh of relief when he heard the splash
of the falling anchor and swung at his moorings within a hundred yards of the guns of the citadel of basseterre. st. kitt s was his final port
of call, and early next morning his bowsprit would be pointed for old england. he had had enough of those robber-haunted seas. ever since he had left maracaibo
upon the main, with his full lading of sugar and red pepper, he had winced at every topsail which glimmered over the violet edge of the tropical sea.
he had coasted up the windward islands, touching here and there, and assailed continually by stories of villainy and outrage. captain sharkey, of the twenty-gun pirate barque, happy
delivery, had passed down the coast, and had littered it with gutted vessels and with murdered men. dreadful anecdotes were current of his grim pleasantries and of his
inflexible ferocity. from the bahamas to the main his coal-black barque, with the ambiguous name, had been freighted with death and many things which are worse than death.
so nervous was captain scarrow, with his new full-rigged ship, and her full and valuable lading, that he struck out to the west as far as bird s
island to be out of the usual track of commerce. and yet even in those solitary waters he had been unable to shake off sinister traces of captain
sharkey. one morning they had raised a single skiff adrift upon the face of the ocean. its only occupant was a delirious seaman, who yelled hoarsely as they
hoisted him aboard, and showed a dried-up tongue like a black and wrinkled fungus at the back of his mouth. water and nursing soon transformed him into the
strongest and smartest sailor on the ship. he was from marblehead, in new england, it seemed, and was the sole survivor of a schooner which had been
