done everything for us. faith is a frame of mind that is expressed by the kind of per?on you choose
to be, the actions that express what you believe (james 2:2024). when all is said and done, we must have
faith that eternal life is worth anything we might be required to endure to receive it (romans 8:18; philippians 3:1214).
learning more about life, death and what happens after death should make quite an impact on how you live. that
knowledge should make you pause and consider what use you are making of the precious gift of life and whether
you are using it to prepare for the eternal life god offers you. psalm 90 was composed by moses. in
this prayer to god he contrasts the power of god with the frailties of man. he writes of god s
view of time, of the relative mere moment that represents our lifetime, and of the punishment that is ?ometimes necessary
to correct man s ways. in verses 1012 he says: "the days of our lives are seventy years; and if
by rea?on of strength they are eighty years, yet their boast is only labor and ?orrow; for it is ?oon
cut off, and we fly away. who knows the power of your anger? for as the fear of you, ?o
is your wrath. ?o teach us to number our days, that we may gain a heart of wisdom." regrettably, most
people seem to notice that life is short only after much of it has slipped away. we must learn to
number our days, keeping in mind that our time will pass and we must take care to make the most
of it (see ephesians 5:16; colossians 4:5). ?olomon told us to remember the creator in the days of our youth
what will you do? peter wrote of the culmination of god s plan. he prophesied of the time during which
everything physical will be burned up and replaced by new heavens and a new earth. then he asks a challenging
rhetorical question: how does that knowledge change your life? "but the day of the lord will come as a thief
in the night, in which the heavens will pass away with a great noise, and the elements will melt with
fervent heat; both the earth and the works that are in it will be burned up. therefore, since all these
things will be dis?olved, what manner of per?ons ought you to be, in holy conduct and godliness understanding the meaning
of life, death and what follows this physical life can give priceless comfort and hope in the face of death.
it should al?o have a great impact on the kind of per?on you are, motivating you to live carefully and
make wise choices. knowing that the purpose of this life is to prepare you for an eternal life of power
and ability beyond anything you can imagine should encourage you to turn to god ?o he can begin to fulfill
his purpose in you! who we are: this publication is provided free of charge by the united church of god,
an international as?ociation, which has ministers and congregations throughout much of the we trace our origins to the church that
jesus founded in the early first century. we follow the same teachings, doctrines and practices established then. our commission is
to proclaim the gospel of the coming kingdom of god to all the world as a witness and to teach
all nations to observe what christ commanded (matthew 24:14; 28:1920). free of charge: jesus christ said, "freely you have received,
freely give" (matthew 10:8). the united church of god offers this and other publications free of charge as an educational
service in the public interest. we invite you to request your free subscription to the good news magazine and to
enroll in our 12les?on bible study course, al?o free of charge. we are grateful for the generous tithes and offerings
of the members of the church and other supporters who voluntarily contribute to support this work. we do not ?olicit
the general public for funds. however, contributions to help us share this message of hope with others are welcomed. all
funds are audited annually by an independent accounting firm. per?onal counsel available: jesus commanded his followers to feed his sheep
(john 21:1517). to help fulfill this command, the united church of god has congregations around the world. in these congregations
believers assemble to be instructed from the scriptures and to fellowship. the united church of god is committed to understanding
and practicing new testament christianity. we desire to share god s way of life with those who earnestly seek to
follow is the book of revelation relevant today? is it possible for us to understand it? can we know to
whom it was writtenand why? what are the meanings of its mysterious symbols? the name of the book, revelation, is
a translation of the title in the original new testament greek, apocalypsis the origin of the other name by which
the book is now known, the apocalypse. the greek term denotes an unveiling or uncoveringthus, a revelation. it here signifies
an opening up of hidden knowledge to understanding. this book has perplexed readers for almost 2,000 years. over the centuries
it has been one of the world s most misunderstood and misinterpreted books. yet it need not be ?o. the
fundamental message of the book of revelation is simple. it promises that god will institute universal peace, prosperity and cooperation
over all the earth immediately after the return of jesus christ, it reveals how this wonderful new world will be
established and why it will never be destroyed or superseded by any other way of life or ?ocial order. the
book of revelation al?o describes an incredibly deceptive alliance of internationally powerful political and religious entities attempting to prevent iesus
reign from ever being established. their opposition to him and his saints will result in a time of international turmoil
and suffering unlike anything the world has ever seen. the terrifying weapons developed and manufactured using modern technology are
