used to destabilize Pakistan, or Central Asia, in order to alter the status quo, whatever it was. Regarding oil, Afghanistan again forms
a bridge or a barrier. As long as Iran is regarded as a hostile country by the US, Afghanistan forms an oil
transport route from Central Asia to Pakistan. As long as there is war in Afghanistan, it remains a barrier preventing the countries
of the Caspian Sea from benefiting from their oil. wars in the Caucasus have exactly the same outcome. While this is the
case, only Russia and perhaps China will have access to and hegemony over the energy resources in the vast Eurasian heart-land. I
think this is the main geopolitical importance of both Afghanistan and the Caucasus. It is the question of Russia monopolizing the geopolitical
heartland, first and foremost. Considering the colossal weight of geopolitics and geopolitical thought in present Russian security thinking, these implications cannot be
overestimated. Q: Can Turkey be drawn into the conflict and, if yes, what effect will this have on Iran, Central Asia, and
NATO? A: It seems Turkey has been drawn into it already. Or rather, Turkey has volunteered to be drawn into it. Iran
and Russia, of course, share a very hostile attitude towards any expansion of Turkish influence in Central Asia and the Caucasus. Turkey
and Pakistan, on the other hand, may finally find each other after a long period of mutual hostility. They both share a
similar geopolitical importance as potential guardians of the West. They are among the most important rim land nations, to borrow a phrase
from classical geopolitics. This means that they are also the most important barriers on the way of a heartland empire to aspire
to sole Eurasian hegemony. Turkey has sought to advocate its interests in Central Asia, where most of the Turkistani nations are ethnically
Turkic (that is, Uzbeks, Turkmens, Kazakhs, Kyrgyz and Uighurs, while Tajiks are Persian). At the beginning of the 1990 s Turkey tried
to play the ethnic and linguistic cards and the Central Asians were quite enthusiastic to embrace "the Turkish model" - that is,
a Western orientation and secular state. But the Central Asian states are still dominated by communist nomenclatures with strong ties with Moscow.
Turkey s economic problems and generally overly cautious foreign policy have greatly undermined its capacity to advocate its own and Western interests
in Central Asia. Moreover, the Central Asian dictators have interpreted the "Turkish model" in most peculiar ways, being often closer to the
Chinese model than the Turkish one. I think Turkey is again trying to prove how pro-western it is and how loyal it
is to NATO. The West has usually been much less loyal to Turkey. When it comes to NATO s influence in Central
Eurasia, once Afghanistan is pacified and US presence probably strengthened through Uzbekistan (though it is one of the notoriously disloyal allies of
any Western interest, much resembling the role played by Saudi Arabia), it is time to come to Georgia s rescue again. The
West had better not be too late in coming to the aid of Georgia and Azerbaijan, which are both under serious Russian
pressure right now. If the Baku-Ceyhan pipeline can be completed, then it could be time for a major reform in Iran as
well. Back to the Table of Contents! Pakistan s Nice Little War By: Dr. Sam Vaknin Also published by United Press International
(UPI) Causing trouble is sometimes a profitable business. The Taliban is, to a large extent, the creation of Pakistan. Yet, it stands
to benefit greatly, economically as well as politically, from the destruction of the Taliban at the hands of the anti-terror coalition. In
the process, its autonomous and contumacious intelligence services keep supplying the Taliban with food and weapons. The government denies either knowledge or
responsibility but the border remains porous, to the economic benefit of many. The self-appointed President of Pakistan, General Pervez Musharraf, said a
few months ago that Pakistan was "on the road to economic recovery". This was incompatible with a simultaneous official reduction in the
economic growth target of country (from 4.5% to 3.8%). But, in May, Pakistan s debt was being rescheduled with the blessings of
the IMF (which contributed 200 million US dollars to the effort) and the World Bank (in the process of approving $700 million
in soft loans). Yet another Paris Club rescheduling seemed imminent. Two months later, talk was in the air about a multinationally-managed natural
(non-liquefied) gas pipeline from Vran to India, through Pakistani territory. "The Economist" (July 14, 2001) estimated that "... the pipeline might yield
Pakistan anything from $250m to $600m a year in transit fees". There was cause for this optimism. To their credit, Musharraf s
skilled economic team of technocrats went where their predecessors feared to tread. They imposed a highly unpopular and much protested against sales
tax on all retail trade. Musharraf threatened to imprison tax evaders and debt defaulters and backed his threat with (constitutionally dubious) arrests.
The immediate result was that tax collection (by the outlandishly corrupt tax authorities) increased by c. $800 million in the 12 months
to June 30, 2001 (the end of the Pakistani fiscal year) - though mostly from import inhibiting exorbitant customs and indirect taxes.
Funds, doled out by corrupt bank managers to defunct enterprises and used to roll over bad loans - were suddenly recalled. The
hitherto symbolic prices of oft-wasted and oft-stolen oil, gas, and electricity were gradually increased and subsidies to state-owned utilities (such as cotton
mills) decreased. This brought about a belated wave of painful restructuring and Pakistan s shambolic and patronage-based industries almost evaporated. Serious privatization
is on the cards. The phone company is up for grabs and all privatization proceeds (optimists put them at $3 billion, realists
at a billion dollars less) are earmarked to pay off foreign debt. The budget deficit stabilized around 5% of GDP (compared to
6.5% the year before), aided by a cut in defence spending (which reached 6% in 1997 but deteriorated ever since compared to
India, whose defence spending increased by 40% in the same period). Despite growing energy costs, inflation was tamed, down to 4% (2000)
from 8% (1999). Yet, tax revenues are still less than 17% of GDP and less than 1.5% of all taxpayers bother to
file tax returns of any kind. In other words, these largely cosmetic measures failed to tackle the systemic failure that passes for
Pakistan s economy. Reform - both economic and political - was still sluggish and half-hearted, Pakistan s current account deficits ballooned (to
$3 billion in 1999), the geopolitical neighbourhood roughened, and the world economy dived. Pakistan s imminent economic collapse looked inevitable. Then came
September 11. Weeks later, US sanctions imposed on Pakistan since 1990 and 1998 (following its nuclear tests) were waived by President Bush
and he rescheduled $400 million in Pakistani debt to various agencies of the US administration. The predicted wave - which has yet
to materialize - of 1.5 million Afghan refugees - was worth to Pakistan $600 million in US aid alone ($150 million of
which were already disbursed). The IMF - ostensibly an independent organization bent on economic reform and impervious to geopolitical concerns - swiftly
switched from tentative approval (the second tranche of the almost twentieth IMF loan was approved in August, before the attacks) to
