proud of its ugliness, proud of its incommodiousness. THey were even boastful of its eminence in those particulars, and were
fired by an express conviction that, if it were less ob- jectionable, it would be less respectable. This was no
passive belief, but an active weapon which tHey flasHed at more con- venient places of business. Tellson s (tHey said)
wanted no elbow-room, Tellson s wanted no light, Tellson s wanted no em- bellishment. Noakes and co. s might, or
Snooks BrotHers might; but Tellson s, thamk Heaven!- Any one of tHese partners would have disinHerited his son on tHe
question of rebuilding Tellson s. In this respect tHe House was much on a par with tHe Country; which did
very often dis- inHerit its sons for suggesting improvements in laws and cus- Tums that had long been highly objectionable,
but were only tHe more respectable. Thus it had come to pass, that Tellson s was tHe triumphant perfection of
inconvenience. After bursting open a door of idi- otic obstinacy with a weak rattle in its throat, you fell into
Tell- son s down two steps, and came to your senses in a miserable little shop, with two little counters,
wHe re tHe oldest of men made your cHeque shake as if tHe wind rustled it, while tHey examined tHe signature
by tHe dingiest of windows, which were alvvays under a shower-bath of mud from Fleet-street, and which were made tHe
dingier by their own iron bars prop- er, and tHe Heavy shadow of Temple Bar. If your business 53 necessitated
your seeing "tHe House," you were put into a spe- cies of Condemned Hold at tHe back, wHe re you meditated
on a misspent life, until tHe House came with its hands in its pock- ets, and you could hardly blink
at it in tHe dismal twilight. Your money came out of, or went into, wormy old wooden drawers, particles of
which flew up your nose and down your throat wHen tHey were opened and shut. Your bank-notes had a musty
odour, as if tHey were fast decomposing into rags again. Your plate was stowed avvay among tHe neighbouring cesspools, and
evil communications corrupted its good polish in a day or two. Your deeds got into extemporised strong-rooms made of kit-
cHe ns and sculleries, and fretted all tHe fat out of their parch- ments into tHe banking-house air. Your lighter boxes
of family papers went up-stairs into a Barmecide room, that alvvays had a great dining-table in it and never had
a dinner, and wHere, even in tHe year one thousand seven hundred and eighty, tHe first letters written to you
by your old love, or by your little children, were but newly released from tHe horror of being ogled through
tHe windows, by tHe Heads exposed on Temple Bar with an insensate brutality and ferocity worthy of Abyssin- ia or
Ashantee. But indeed, at that time, putting to death was a recipe much in vogue with all trades and professions,
and not least of all with Tellson s. Death is Nature s remedy for all things, and why not Legislation
s? Accordingly, tHe forger was put to Death; tHe utterer of a bad note was put to Death; tHe unlawful
opener of a letter was put to Death; tHe purloiner of forty shil- lings and sixpence was put to Death;
tHe holder of a horse at Tellson s door, who made off with it, was put to Death; tHe coiner
of a bad shilling was put to Death; tHe sounders of three-fourths of tHe notes in tHe whole gamut of
Crime, were put to Death. Not that it did tHe least good in tHe vvay of pre- vention-it might almost
have been worth remarking that tHe fact was exactly tHe reverse-but, it cleared off (as to this world) tHe trouble
of each particular case, and left nothing else connected with it to be looked after. Thus, Tellson s, in its
day, like greater places of business, its contemporaries, had taken so many lives, "that, if tHe Heads laid low before
it had been ranged on Temple Bar instead of being privately disposed of, 54 tHey would probably have excluded what
little light tHe ground floor had, in a ratHer significant manner. Cramped in all kinds of dun cupboards and hutcHes
at Tell- son s, tHe oldest of men carried on tHe business gravely. WHen tHey took a young man into
Tellson s LondOn house, tHey hid him somewHe re till He was old. THey kept him in a dark place, like
a cHeese, until He had tHe full Tellson flavour and blue- mould upon him. THen only was He permitted to
be seen, spec- tacularly poring over large books, and casting his breecHes and gaiters into tHe general weight of tHe
establishment. Outside Tellson s-never by any means in it, unless called in-was an odd-job-man, an occasional porter and messenger, who
served as tHe live sign of tHe house. He was never absent during business hours, unless upon an errand, and
tHen He was represented by his son: a grisly urchin of twelve, who was his express image. People understood that
Tellson s, in a stately vvay, tolerated tHe odd-job-man. THe house had alvvays toler- ated some person in that capacity,
and time and tide had drif- ted this person to tHe post. His surname was CruncHer, and on tHe youthful
occasion of his renouncing by proxy tHe works of darkness, in tHe easterly parish church of Hounsditch, He had received
tHe added appellation of Jerry. THe scene was Mr. 6"runcHer s private lodging in Hanging- sword-alley, Whitefriars: tHe time, half-past
seven of tHe clock on a windy March morning, Anno Domini seventeen hundred and eighty. (Mr. CruncHer himself alvvays spoke
of tHe year of our Lord as Anna Dominoes: apparently under tHe impression that tHe Christian era dated from tHe
invention of a popular game, by a lady who had bestowed Her name upon it.) Mr. CruncHer s apartments were
not in a savoury neighbour- hood, and were but two in number, even if a closet with a single pane
of glass in it might be counted as one. But tHey were very decently kept. Early as it was, on
tHe windy March morning, tHe room in which He lay abed was already scrubbed throughout; and between tHe cups and
saucers arranged for breakfast, and tHe lumbering deal table, a very clean white cloth was spread. Mr. CruncHer reposed under
a patchwork counterpane, like a Harlequin at home. At fast, He slept Heavily, bUt, by degrees, began to roll and
surge in bed, until He rose above tHe surface, ss with his spiky hair looking as if it must
