potential to improve the lives of hundreds of millions. As far as "designer babies" go, pre-natal cloning and genetic engineering can be
used to prevent disease or cure it, to suppress unwanted traits, and to enhance desired ones. It is the moral right of
a parent to make sure that his progeny suffers less, enjoys life more, and attains the maximal level of welfare throughout his
or her life. That such technologies can be abused by over-zealous, or mentally unhealthy parents in collaboration with avaricious or unscrupulous doctors
- should not prevent the vast majority of stable, caring, and sane parents from gaining access to them. Ethical Relativism and Absolute
Taboos By: Dr. Sam Vaknin I. Taboos II. Incest III. Suicide IV. Race V. Moral Relativism I. Taboos Taboos regulate our sexual
conduct, race relations, political institutions, and economic mechanisms - virtually every realm of our life. According to the 2002 edition of the
"Encyclopedia Britannica", they are "the prohibition of an action or the use of an object based on ritualistic distinctions of them either
as being sacred and consecrated or as being dangerous, unclean, and accursed." Jews are instructed to ritually cleanse themselves after having been
in contact with a Torah scroll - or a corpse. This association of the sacred with the accursed and the holy with
the depraved is the key to the guilt and sense of danger which accompany the violation of a taboo. In Polynesia, where
the term originated, "taboos could include prohibitions on fishing or picking fruit at certain seasons; food taboos that restrict the diet of
pregnant women; prohibitions on talking to or touching chiefs or members of other high social classes; taboos on walking or traveling in
certain areas, such as forests; and various taboos that function during important life events such as birth, marriage, and death." Political correctness
is a particularly pernicious kind of taboo enforcement. It entails an all-pervasive self-censorship coupled with social sanctions. Consider the treatment of the
right to life, incest, suicide, and race. II. Incest In contemporary thought, incest is invariably associated with child abuse and its horrific,
long-lasting, and often irreversible consequences. But incest is far from being the clear-cut or monolithic issue that millennia of taboo imply. Incest
with minors is a private - and particularly egregious - case of pedophilia or statutory rape. It should be dealt with forcefully.
But incest covers much more besides these criminal acts. Incest is the ethical and legal prohibition to have sex with a related
person or to marry him or her - even if the people involved are consenting and fully informed adults. Contrary to popular
mythology, banning incest has little to do with the fear of genetic diseases. Even genetically unrelated parties (a stepfather and a stepdaughter)
can commit incest. Incest is also forbidden between fictive kin or classificatory kin (that belong to the same matriline or patriline). In
certain societies (certain Native American tribes, or the Chinese) it is sufficient to carry the same family name (i.e., to belong to
the same clan) to render a relationship incestuous. Clearly, eugenic considerations have little to do with incest. Moreover, the use of contraceptives
means that incest does not need to result in pregnancy and the transmission of genetic material. Inbreeding (endogamous) or straightforward incest is
the norm in many life forms, even among primates (e.g,, chimpanzees). It was also quite common until recently in certain human societies
- the Hindus, for instance, or many Native American tribes, and royal families everywhere. Nor is the taboo universal. In some societies,
incest is mandatory or prohibited, according to one s social class (Bali). In others, the Royal House started a tradition of incestuous
marriages, later emulated by the lower classes (Ancient Egypt). The list is long and it serves to demonstrate the diversity of attitudes
towards this most universal practice. The more primitive and aggressive the society, the more strict and elaborate the set of incest prohibitions
and the fiercer the penalties for their violation. The reason may be economic. Incest interferes with rigid algorithms of inheritance in conditions
of extreme scarcity (for instance, of land and water) and consequently leads to survival-threatening internecine disputes. Freud said that incest provokes horror
because it touches upon our forbidden, ambivalent sexual cravings and aggression towards members of our close family. Westermark held that "familiarity breeds
repulsion" and that the incest taboo - rather than counter inbred instincts - simply reflects emotional reality. Both ignored the fact that
the incest taboo is learned - not inherent. We can easily imagine a society where incest is extolled, taught, and practiced -
and out-breeding is regarded with horror and revulsion. The incestuous marriages among members of the royal households of Europe were intended to
preserve the familial property and expand the clan s territory. They were normative, not aberrant. Marrying an outsider was considered abhorrent. III.
Suicide Self-sacrifice, avoidable martyrdom, engaging in life risking activities, refusal to prolong one s life through medical treatment, euthanasia, overdosing, and self-destruction
that is the result of coercion - are all closely related to suicide. They all involve a deliberately self-inflicted death. But while
suicide is chiefly intended to terminate a life - the other acts are aimed at perpetuating, strengthening, and defending values or other
people. Many are appalled by the choice implied in suicide - of death over life. They feel that it demeans life -
i.e., abnegates its meaning. Life s meaning - the outcome of active selection by the individual - is either external (i.e., God
s plan) or internal (i.e., the outcome of an arbitrary frame of reference). Our life is rendered meaningful only by integrating into
an eternal thing, process, design, or being. Suicide makes life trivial because the act is not natural - not part of the
eternal framework, the undying process, the timeless cycle of birth and death. Suicide is a break with eternity. Sidgwick said that only
conscious (i.e., intelligent) beings can appreciate values and meanings. So, life is significant to conscious, intelligent, though finite, beings - because it
is a part of some eternal goal, plan, process, thing, design, or being. Suicide flies in the face of Sidgwick s dictum.
It is a statement by an intelligent and conscious being about the meaninglessness of life. If suicide is a statement, than society,
in this case, is against the freedom of expression. In the case of suicide, free speech dissonantly clashes with the sanctity of
a meaningful life. To rid itself of the anxiety brought on by this conflict, society cast suicide as a depraved or even
criminal act and its perpetrators are much castigated. The suicide violates not only the social contract - but, many will add, covenants
with God or nature. Thomas Aquinas said that - since organisms strive to survive - suicide is an unnatural act. Moreover, it
adversely affects the community and violates the property rights of God, the imputed owner of one s spirit. Christianity regards the immortal
soul as a gift and, in Jewish writings, it is a deposit. Suicide amounts to the abuse or misuse of God s
possessions, temporarily lodged in a corporeal mansion. This paternalism was propagated, centuries later, by Blackstone, the codifier of British Law. Suicide -
being self-murder - is a grave felony, which the state has a right to prevent and to punish for. In certain
