little now; it s not long I shall.. But all
at once she stopped. The expression of her face instantaneously
changed. Horror and excitement were suddenly replaced by a look
of soft, solemn, blissful attention. He could not comprehend the
meaning of the change. She was listening to the stirring
of the new life within her. 791 of 1759 Anna
Karenina Chapter 4 Alexey Alexandrovitch, after meeting Vronsky on his
own steps, drove, as he had intended, to the Italian
opera. He sat through two acts there, and saw everyone
he had wanted to see. On returning home, he carefully
scrutinized the hat stand, and noticing that there was not
a military overcoat there, he went, as usual, to his
own room. But, contrary to his usual habits, he did
not go to bed, he walked up and down his
study till three o clock in the morning. The feeling
of furious anger with his wife, who would not observe
the proprieties and keep to the one stipulation he had
laid on her, not to receive her lover in her
own home, gave him no peace. She had not complied
with his request, and he was bound to punish her
and carry out his threat-obtain a divorce and take away
his son. He knew all the difficulties connected with this
course, but he had said he would do it, and
now he must carry out his threat. Countess Lidia Ivanovna
had hinted that this was the best way out of
his position, and of late the obtaining of divorces had
been brought to such perfection that Alexey Alexandrovitch saw a
possibility of overcoming the formal difficulties. Misfortunes never 792 of
1759 Anna Karenina come singly, and the affairs of the
reorganization of the native tribes, and of the irrigation of
the lands of the Zaraisky province, had brought such official
worries upon Alexey Alexandrovitch that he had been of late
in a continual condition of extreme irritability. He did not
sleep the whole night, and his fury, growing in a
sort of vast, arithmetical progression, reached its highest limits in
the morning. He dressed in haste, and as though carrying
his cup full of wrath, and fearing to spill any
over, fearing to lose with his wrath the energy necessary
for the interview with his wife, he went into her
room directly he heard she was up. Anna, who had
thought she knew her husband so well, was amazed at
his appearance when he went in to her. His brow
was lowering, and his eyes stared darkly before him, avoiding
her eyes; his mouth was tightly and contemptuously shut. In
his walk, in his gestures, in the sound of his
voice there was a determination and firmness such as his
wife had never seen in him. He went into her
room, and without greeting her, walked straight up to her
writing-table, and taking her keys, opened a drawer. What do
you want? she cried. Your lover s letters, he said.
793 of 1759 Anna Karenina They re not here, she
said, shutting the drawer; but from that action he saw
he had guessed right, and roughly pushing away her hand,
he quickly snatched a portfolio in which he knew she
used to put her most important papers. She tried to
pull the portfolio away, but he pushed her back.
