curriculum. there are no ways for teachers to share their experiences. these problems can be overcome with centralized repositories of
carefully structured curriculum and indexed resources. the repositories should support two-way communication, so that teachers can share their experiences using
materials in the repositories and can "grow" the repositories. tca s profiler, explorer and versions components work together for information
retrieval the profiler helps teachers define perspectives for a particular classroom and locates curriculum and resources that match the perspective.
the explorer displays these items and allows the teacher to search through them to find related items. the explorer uses
an interface similar to the mac finder or win95 explorer to navigate across links between a Curriculum, its weekly units,
their lesson plans and their individual resources. versions then helps the teacher select from alternative versions that have been adapted
by other teachers. through these interfaces, teachers can locate the available materials that most closely match their personal needs; this
makes it easier to customize the materials to classroom requirements. tca s planner, editor and networker components help the teacher
to prepare resources and curriculum for use and to share the results of classroom successes. the planner (figure 2) is
a design environment for reusing and reorganizing lesson plans, note that the planner interface displays a variety of linked information
in a useful format for teachers to study and manipulate. all the educational resources linked to a lesson plan are
listed together where they can be rearranged or selectively deleted; their recommended classroom and homework times are added up as
a guide; lists of required materials, prerequisites and preparation steps are compiled. in addition, a critiquing component displays suggestions and
warnings within the plan. here, relevant inter-related information is gathered together in a display that can print out the teacher
s familiar lesson plan. the editor allows the teacher to modify and adapt individual resources (texts, spreadsheets, drawings, quizzes, collections
of web pointers). this is a primary means for personalizing the curriculum. finally, the networker supports interactions with the internet,
providing a two-way medium of communication with a global community of teachers. using the networker, a teacher can share successfully
customized versions of standard curriculum with other teachers who might have similar needs. the personalized learner s medium (plm) illustrates
how several mechanisms can be used synergistically to transform generalized information in an educational digital library on the web into
personalized information in a student s browser. the plm technical approach integrates customization ideas, mechanisms and industry standards from tca,
hermes and html. this approach can be applied to classroom applications or to learning-on-demand features in software for professionals, where
information relevant to the current task is tailored to the person and to the task. plm was originally proposed for
people learning high energy particle physics. this is a field where students have to go over the same material several
times, at different levels of mathematical sophistication. there is little continuity in the available textbooks. to start, there are a
number of popular books with no mathematics. then there are some requiring substantial background in mathematical physics. next, come highly
technical texts and then the very specialized notation of the journals. the problem is that students come with different backgrounds
and the texts use an assortment of seemingly incompatible formalisms. the idea behind plm is to provide one consistent and
comprehensive hypertext source with paths through it at different levels. by specifying a perspective, a reader determines the level of
material to be presented, including the amount of historical background, of mathematical elaboration or of experimental description. the hypertext format
allows a reader to explore related material to supplement the perspectival path, e.g., to get a refresher on some forgotten
mathematical formalism. personalization in plm takes place in eight sequential stages within the process of selecting materials from the digital
library, analyzing them into hypertext nodes and links and synthesizing selected contents into a personalized display. the stages typically take
place automatically, but the user can intervene when desired. the learner defines a profile of the materials sought in an
educational digital library. this profile includes characteristics of the learner as well. the profile is used by plm to formulate
a query that retrieves a selection of materials from the library. the profile functions as a user model for the
software, but one that is under the control of the user. descriptions of selected materials are displayed in an explorer
window. the learner uses this interface to browse among related library resources, such as textual selections, software tools, historical background,
useful mathematical techniques, relevant video clips. by providing for browsing within the confines of the profile search, plm gives the
learner freedom to explore without the danger of becoming lost. the digital library may include multiple versions of a given
resource. for instance, a physics problem might be approached using a graphical simulation, equations or computer programming. the learner can
select the most appealing approach. documents are broken down into their elements (as hypertext nodes), connected by typed hypertext links.
the link types are based on the element s html markup type (e.g., title). this is done automatically by plm.
custom node and link types may be defined by learnersor by their teachers. the learner s profile defines a perspective.
the currently active perspective selects which nodes and links can be viewed. this allows multiple, redundant forms of information to
be present in resources in the library, of which all but one form will be filtered out. for instance, many
people may have annotated a particular resource, but a learner may want to filter out all annotations except her own,
her teacher s and her classmates . then she would define her own perspective and have it incorporate her teacher
s and her class in order to view what they view in their perspectives. all plm displays are created dynamically
by queries in the hypermedia navigation language. statements in the language in effect specify starting nodes, types of links to
traverse and characteristics of nodes to filter out. execution of a statement takes place within a selected perspective and
