only the occasional whinny of horses and the drip of melting snow broke the silence. slowly, careful to make no
sound, she rose to her feet and crept toward the doors, eyes focused intently on the slit of light between.
she was only a step or two away when the ribbon of light darkened. she rushed backward, tripping over a
piece of wood and hitting the ground hard. there was a blur and a hiss as the fiend s blade
split the restraining ropes. the doors swung open, leaving the dark silhouette of the murderer as the light reflecting from
the snow fairly blinded myranda. squinting against the sudden brightness, myranda felt for a piece of wood and brandished it.
she d seen what he could do to trained warriors, but no one would take her life without a fight.
if this monster was going to finish her off, she would be sure to make the decision a regrettable one.
the form of the bounty hunter had only begun to clear when it leapt from the light. now it was
hidden somewhere in the darkness inside. myranda s eyes were useless, as the contrast of light and dark kept her
from seeing anything. before she could even react, she felt the board she d grabbed torn from her grip. her
arm was pushed painfully behind her back and she was forced forward. fighting all the way, myranda was led outside.
each time she resisted, a sharp pain in her already-injured shoulder forced her to continue. the snow was ankle-deep at
its shallowest, and as tall as she in drifts. when she was nearly to the horses in front of the
sleigh, her arm was released with one final thrust. a second iron grip locked onto the back of her head,
keeping her gaze forward. one of the horses had been cut off of the sleigh, every symbol of the army
s ownership removed from the equipment. "go. now!" came a whisper to her ear, harsh and disguised, but certainly a
male. his final word flared with anger, offering some hint of a voice. myranda gasped as she felt the cold
edge of a knife pressed to her throat. "if you so much as glance in my direction, i will do
to you what i did to them," he said, turning her head to the remains of the soldiers. where once
had stood a man now lay a mangled mass of metal. the snow around the heap was pitted where flecks
of blood melted through, and armor showed smudges of blood far blacker than she had seen anywhere but the field
a few days ago. there was no flesh or bone among the spent armor either, only a scattering of bluish-gray
dust. there had been more than a blade at work in the murder of these soldiers. some unholy magic had
ravaged their bodies. he had taken more than their lives; he had taken their humanity. now they could not even
be honored for their sacrifice with a funeral. it was horrible. she climbed with difficulty to the back of the
horse. it had never been meant for an individual rider, so it had no saddle. myranda had ridden bareback before,
but she preferred not to. now, however, was no time to object. as she snapped the reins and went on
her way, she filled her head with the mindboggling facts of the day. this bounty hunter captured her, bound her,
and stole her most valuable item. yet, at the same time, he left her money and made sure to keep
the fire going, even though he did not warm himself by it. the fire must have been for her--but why?
it was clear that she herself had some value to him, but after killing those who seem to have come
for her, he provided a means to escape and demanded that she use it. why? was this some sort of
cruel game? myranda urged the horse forward. despite the dozens of paces already between them, she could feel the place
in her back where a knife might slip in at the first hint of hesitation. she pushed the horse as
hard as she could to put as much space between herself and the killer as she possible, minutes passed--she knew
not how many--before she reached the fork in the road and decided she felt safe enough to stop. the horse
breathed great, steaming gasps as she gave it its first rest. it was unaccustomed to speed, being used only to
pull a sleigh. she looked to the beast s back and frowned. her pack had never been returned to her.
all that she had left was the three silvers that the friendly fox had given her earlier. it was just
yesterday, but it seemed ages ago. she looked to the south. no sense going back to the man who had
sent the soldiers and murderer after her. she would head to the next town, replace her lost goods, and decide
what could be done. now that the desperate fear had released its grip on her, she became aware of three
things. first, the cold was absolutely biting. the night she had spent away from it only served to make it
feel many times worse. second was the pain in her shoulder. it had been burning steadily from the cold, but
she had only now become aware of it. last, as the horse began at a gentle trot, she heard a
peculiar jingling. it was different from the sound of the various buckles and straps of the horse s equipment. curious,
she looked about for the source of the sound. she soon found it. there was a bag, tied to one
of the horse s straps. the removed the satchel and opened it. the sight made her head spin. it was
the bag of coins she d had stolen from her. there could be little doubt. everything from the ancient-looking bag
to the weathered coins were familiar to her. how? how had it gotten here? the killer must have been
