it is exerted wilfully and with purpose by the child. one would instance the case of miss lamb: when it
was physically impossible for her to comply, the compulsion was promptly switched to miss latterly, who had previously felt none
of it, with the result that the baby had its way, and got back here, as did the rest. and
since they got back, no one has managed to take one of them more than six miles from midwich. hysteria,
says willers. one woman starts it, the rest subconsciously accept it, and so exhibit the same symptoms. but if the
baby is parked with a neighbour here the mother is able to go to trayne, or anywhere else she wants
to, without any hindrance. that, according to willers, is simply because her subconscious hasn t been led to expect anything
to happen when she is on her own, so it doesn t. but my point is this: ferrelyn cannot take
the baby; but if she makes up her mind to go, and leave it here, there s nothing to stop
her. your job is to help to make up her mind for her. alan considered. sort of put out an
ultimatum - make her choose between baby and me? that s a bit tough and - er - fundamental, isn
t it? he suggested. my dear fellow, the baby s put the ultimatum already. what you have to do is
to clarify the situation. the only possible compromise would be for you to surrender to the baby s challenge, and
come to live here, too. which i couldn t, anyway. very well, then. ferrelyn has been dodging the issue for
some weeks now, but sooner or later she must face it. your job is first to make her recognize the
hurdle, and then help her over it. alan said slowly: it s quite a thing to ask, though, isn t
it? isn t the other quite a thing to ask of a man - when it isn t his baby?
h m, alan remarked. zellaby went on: and it isn t really her baby, either, or i d not be
talking quite like this. ferrelyn and the rest are the victims of an imposition: they have been cheated into an
utterly false position. some kind of elaborate confidence trick has made them into what the veterinary fellows call host mothers:
a relationship more intimate than that of the foster mother, but similar in kind. this baby has absolutely nothing to
do with either of you - except that, by some process not yet explained, she was placed in a situation
which forced her to nourish it. so far is it from belonging to either of you that it doesn t
correspond to any known racial classification. even willers has to admit that. but if the type is unknown, the phenomenon
is not - our ancestors, who did not have willers blind faith in the articles of science - had a
word for it: they called such beings changelings. none of this business would have seemed as strange to them as
it does to us because they had only to suffer religious dogmatism, which was not so dogmatic as scientific dogmatism.
the idea of the changeling, therefore, far from being novel, is both old and so widely distributed that it is
unlikely to have arisen, or to have persisted, without cause, and occasional support. true, one has not encountered the idea
of it taking place on such a scale as this, but quantity does not, in this case, affect the quality
of the event; it simply confirms it. all these sixty one golden eyed children we have here are intruders, changelings:
they are cuckoo children. now, the important thing about the cuckoo is not how the egg got into the nest,
nor why that nest was chosen; the real matter for concern comes after it has been hatched - what, in
fact, it will attempt to do next. and that, whatever it may be, will be motivated by its instinct for
survival, an instinct characterized chiefly by utter ruthlessness. alan pondered a little. you really think you ve got a sound
analogy there? he asked, uneasily. i m perfectly certain of it, zellaby asserted. the two of them fell silent for
some little time, zellaby lying back in his chair with his hands behind his head, alan staring unseeingly across the
lawn. at length: all right, he said. i suppose most of us have been hoping that once the babies arrived
things would straighten out. i admit that it doesn t look like it now. but what are you expecting to
happen? i m just being expectant, not specific - except that i don t think it will be anything pleasant,
zellaby replied. the cuckoo survives because it is tough and single purposed. that is why i hope you will take
ferrelyn away - and keep her away. nothing satisfactory can come of this, at best. do your utmost to make
her forget this changeling in order that she may have a normal life. it will be difficult at first, no
doubt, but not so hard if she has a child that is really her own. alan rubbed the furrows on
his forehead. it is difficult, he said. in spite of the way it happened, she does have a maternal feeling
for it - a well, a sort of physical affection, and a sense of obligation, you know. but of course.
that s how it works. that s why the poor hen works herself to death feeding the greedy cuckoo chick.
it s a form of confidence trick, as i told you - the callous exploitation of a natural proclivity. the
existence of such a proclivity is important to the continuation of a species, but, after all, in a civilized society
we cannot afford to give way to all the natural urges, can we? in this case, ferrelyn must simply refuse
to be blackmailed through her better instincts. if, said alan slowly, if angela s child had turned out to
