have designs on the port of henge. i wish to dissuade them in this venture and have suggested that a
powerful sorceress controls henge s army. i have some feeble hope that, being superstitious, they might forego their attempt on
henge if they See this information to be true. dagon refuses to allow us to continue on to henge, believing
it to be too dangerous. he has also been prejudiced against them by a failed assassination attempt on his person.
bataar, the great khan s son, thought it a good idea to marry me to seal an alliance with fernland,
hence the need to be rid of my fiance. any advice would be welcome. if you think my idea has
merit, we would welcome a visit from you in your most frightening visage. with affection, serafina smiled as she read
electra s message and then put it away in her pocket. "good news?" prince blackwell asked. "very. electra would like
me to visit her in helsop." the fernland men turned down twenty quivers offer to share his large tent for
sleeping. they slept outside where they could talk without being overheard. bear s two little girls had been quite disappointed
when he left the tent. bear suspected they had been planning something and resented having their plans foiled. muller the
spy and hilgard had gathered tidbits of information. the army was headed south. several towns and cities lay in their
path. most of the towns had already surrendered to the great khan s envoys. hilgard s command of the barburee
tongue was improving, but he could shed no light on twenty quivers cryptic message, make good for explode arrows .
the fernland men awoke the next morning to wonderful breakfast smells. twenty quivers grand daughters stood watching until bear opened
his eyes. they giggled as he pulled his blanket over his head and turned away. one of the girls nibbled
on a piece of goat cheese, and pointed toward their tent. the men gradually made their way to twenty quivers
tent where a breakfast of meat filled dumplings, goats cheese and barley mush awaited them. they dove in, grateful for
the good food. after breakfast twenty quivers cleared his throat. "we go see explode arrows," he said. the men followed
him out of the tent. they walked through the ranks of family tents, some housing swordsmen and their families, some
housing engineers and their families. they passed herds of sheep, groups of camels, horses everywhere. they kept a safe distance
from the huge grey animals with the long, snakelike noses and sharp tusks. hilgard asked twenty quivers the name of
these animals. "zaan. very strong." twenty quivers stuck his elbows out to the side to make his shoulders bulge in
a pantomime of strength. they passed the tents of archers where men sat outside, stringing bows and whittling arrows. one
woman saw twenty quivers and shouted at him. he turned to listen. she beat her chest, pointed at her tent
and hurled a tirade of harsh words at the ambassador. "what is she saying?" muller asked hilgard. "her husband is
sick or hurt, i think." twenty quivers went inside the tent and spoke to someone inside. he came back to
the opening of the tent and called out to the fernland men. "come, see bad arrow." the fernlanders looked at
one another briefly and approached the tent cautiously. inside, a man lay on the floor, heavily bandaged. between the bandages,
angry patches of burned skin showed. it looked more like burns from a fire than the result of puncture wounds
from arrows. "bad magic." twenty quivers spoke a few soothing words to the woman before they took their leave. as
they continued through the archers camp they saw more men disfigured by burns, some fully recuperated, but scarred, and some
still in bandages. "i m not liken the looks a this," bear whispered. "if it be bad magic, ya reckon
we kin help?" smiles asked. bear stared at his friend. "ain t no such thing as magicgood or bad. only
thing we kin do is get ourselves in hot water, tryin ta help." "let s not be saying that too
loud," take said softly. "you never can tell who might be able to help and there s that gold reward
to consider," "gold, smold!" bear said, angrily, "don t you be volunteerin us fer something s gonna put us in
bandages like them other blokes." they passed the last tent and looked out over an open area that appeared to
be an improvised archery range. they watched while several archers practiced hitting bits of charcoal with their arrows while riding
at full gallop. others seemed to be testing large bows using arrows with bamboo cylinders attached. as they watched, a
loud noise rang out and a bush exploded. "that good arrow." twenty quivers rode toward the lucky archer. another bush
exploded, closer, making them all ierk around nervously. suddenly, a sharp bang sounded followed by horrendous screams. a man ran
from the field and plunged his face and arms in a trough of water. the fernland men stood bewildered and
frightened by what they had just witnessed. "that bad arrow," twenty quivers shouted as he ran to help the wounded
man. muller the spy ran in the opposite direction to check the remains of the archer s demolished bow. the
other fernland men followed him, careful not to go too close to any bamboo cylinders. "what do you suppose is
in those cylinders?" take asked muller. muller inspected a bit of the blackened bow. "i don t know, but i
do know those cylinders are why you re here, and for that matter, why i m here as well. we
have to find out how they are made. once they learn to control the explosions..." he didn t finish. he
didn t need to finish. it was obvious to all that fernland had no weapons to combat these cylinders that
could tear apart bushes on contact. and their job as magicians here in barburee was to bring this weapon
