the same as usual, and she expressed no surprise at my having come in spite of my note. there was nothing in her bearing to show that yesterday
s incident had made any impression upon her, and so i am inclined to hope that i overrated it. april 6 (evening). no, no, no, i did not
overrate it. i can no longer attempt to conceal from myself that this woman has conceived a passion for me. it is monstrous, but it is true. again,
tonight, i awoke from the mesmeric trance to find my hand in hers, and to suffer that odious feeling which urges me to throw away my honor, my
career, every thing, for the sake of this creature who, as i can plainly see when i am away from her influence, possesses no single charm upon earth.
but when i am near her, i do not feel this. she rouses something in me, something evil, something i had rather not think of. she paralyzes my
better nature, too, at the moment when she stimulates my worse. decidedly it is not good for me to be near her. last night was worse than before.
instead of flying i actually sat for some time with my hand in hers talking over the most intimate subjects with her. we spoke of agatha, among other
things. what could i have been dreaming of? miss penclosa said that she was conventional, and i agreed with her. she spoke once or twice in a disparaging
way of her, and i did not protest. what a creature i have been! weak as i have proved myself to be, i am still strong enough to
bring this sort of thing to an end. it shall not happen again. i have sense enough to fly when i cannot fight. from this sunday night onward
i shall never sit with miss penclosa again. never! let the experiments go, let the research come to an end; any thing is better than facing this monstrous
temptation which drags me so low. i have said nothing to miss penclosa, but i shall simply stay away. she can tell the reason without any words of
mine. april 7. have stayed away as i said. it is a pity to ruin such an interesting investigation, but it would be a greater pity still to
ruin my life, and i know that i cannot trust myself with that woman. 11 p. m. god help me! what is the matter with me? am i
going mad? let me try and be calm and reason with myself. first of all i shall set down exactly what occurred. it was nearly eight when i
wrote the lines with which this day begins. feeling strangely restless and uneasy, i left my rooms and walked round to spend the evening with agatha and her
mother. they both remarked that i was pale and haggard. about nine professor pratt- haldane came in, and we played a game of whist. i tried hard to
concentrate my attention upon the cards, but the feeling of restlessness grew and grew until i found it impossible to struggle against it. i simply could not sit
still at the table. at last, in the very middle of a hand, i threw my cards down and, with some sort of an incoherent apology about having
an appointment, i rushed from the room. as if in a dream i have a vague recollection of tearing through the hall, snatching my hat from the stand,
and slamming the door behind me. as in a dream, too, i have the impression of the double line of gas-lamps, and my bespattered boots tell me that
i must have run down the middle of the road. it was all misty and strange and unnatural. i came to wilson s house; i saw mrs. wilson
and i saw miss penclosa. i hardly recall what we talked about, but i do remember that miss p. shook the head of her crutch at me in
a playful way, and accused me of being late and of losing interest in our experiments. there was no mesmerism, but i stayed some time and have only
just returned. my brain is quite clear again now, and i can think over what has occurred. it is absurd to suppose that it is merely weakness and
force of habit. i tried to explain it in that way the other night, but it will no longer suffice. it is something much deeper and more terrible
than that. why, when i was at the mardens whist- table, i was dragged away as if the noose of a rope had been cast round me. i
can no longer disguise it from myself. the woman has her grip upon me. i am in her clutch, but i must keep my head and reason it
out and see what is best to be done. but what a blind fool i have been! in my enthusiasm over my research i have walked straight into
the pit, although it lay gaping before me. did she not herself warn me? did she not tell me, as i can read in my own journal,
