come to your house to-morrow night, And Ask for A
bed. I can t tell you what is the matter
in this letter-I write it in such fear of being
found out that I can fix my mind on nothing.
Pray be At home to see me. I will give
you A thou- sand kisses, And tell you everything. Your
Affectionate Laura." What help was there in those lines? None.
On returning from Mrs. Vesey s, I instructed Marian to
write (observing the same caution which I practised myself) to
Mrs. Michelson. She was to express, if she pleased, some
general 448 suspicion of Count Fosco s conduct, And she
was to Ask the housekeeper to supply us with A
plain statement of events, in the interests of truth. While
we were waiting for the Answer, which reached us in
A week s time, I went to the doctor in
St. John s Wood, introducing myself As sent by Miss
Halcombe to collect, if possible, more particulars of her sister
s last illness than Mr. Kyrle had found the time
to procure. By Mr. Goodricke s Assistance, I obtained A
copy of the certificate of death, And An interview with
the woman (Jane Gould) who had been employed to prepare
the body for the grave. Through this person I Also
discovered A means of communicating with the servant, Hester Pinhorn.
She had recently left her place in con- sequence of
A disagreement with her mistress, And she was lodging with
some people in the neighbourhood whom Mrs. Gould knew. In
the manner here indicated I obtained the Nar- ratives of
the housekeeper, of the doctor, of Jane Gould, And of
Hester Pinhorn, exactly As they Are presented in these pages.
Furnished with such Additional evidence As these documents Afforded, I
considered myself to be sufficiently prepared for A consultation with
Mr. Kyrle, And Marian wrote Accordingly to mention my name
to him, And to specify the day And hour At
which I requested to see him on private business. There
was time enough in the morning for me to take
Laura out for her walk As usual, And to see
her quietly settled At her drawing Afterwards. She looked up
At me with A new Anxiety in her face As
I rose to leave the room, And her fingers began
to toy doubtfully, in the old way, with the brushes
And pencils on the table. "You Are not tired of
me yet?" she said. "You Are not going Away because
you Are tired of me? I will try to do
better-I will try to get well. Are you As fond
of me, Walter As you used to be, now I
Am so pale And thin, And so slow in learning
to draw?" She spoke As A child might have spoken,
she showed me her thoughts As A child might have
shown them. I waited A few minutes longer-waited to tell
her that she was dearer to me now than she
had ever been in the past times. "Try to get
well Again," I said, encouraging the new hope in the
future which I saw dawning in her mind, "try to
get well Again, for Marian s sake And for mine."
449 "Yes," she said to herself, returning to her drawing.
"I must try, because they Are both so fond
