could only attach them!" he added, and he nervously hastened his footsteps; for to him this inaction was terrible. "they d forget their thirst if they were fighting,"
he muttered, and then he frowned; for the painful neighing of the horses behind the house came to his ear. in desperation he went inside and climbed to
the roof, where he could see the circle of the enemy. it was no use. they were five to one, and his gippies were demoralised. it would be
a fine bit of pluck to try and cut his way through the arabs to the nile -- but how many would reach it? no, he had made
his full measure of mistakes, he would not add to the list. if hassan got through to kerbat his gippies here would no doubt be relieved, and there
would be no more blood on his head. relieved? and when they were relieved, what of himself, wyndham bimbashi? he knew what men would say in cairo, what
men would say at the war office in london town, at "the rag -- everywhere! he could not look his future in the face. he felt that every
man in eeypt, Saw! himself, had known all along that he was a complete failure. it did not matter while he himself was not conscious of it; but
now that the armour-plate of conceit protecting his honest mind had been torn away on the reefs of foolish deeds, it mattered everything. for when his conceit was
peeled away, there was left a crimson cuticle of the wyndham pride. certainly he could not attack the arabs -- he had had his eternal fill of sorties.
also he could not wait for the relief party, for his gippies and the friendlies were famishing, dying of thirst. he prayed for night. how slowly the minutes,
the hours passed; and how bright was the moon when it rose! brighter even than it was when hassan crept out to steal through the arab lines. .....................
at midnight, wyndham stole softly out of a gate in the garden wall, and, like hassan, dropping to the ground, crept towards a patch of maize lying between
the house and the river. he was dressed like a fellah, with the long blue yelek, and a poor wool fez, and round the fez was a white
cloth, as it were to protect his mouth from the night air, after the manner of the peasant. the fires of the enemy were dying down, and only
here and there arabs gossiped or drank coffee by the embers. at last wyndham was able to drop into the narrow channel, now dry, through which, when the
sluice was open and the sakkia turned, the water flowed to the house. all went well till he was within a hundred yards of the wheel, though now
and again he could hear sentries snoring or talking just above him. suddenly he heard breathing an arm s length before him, then a figure raised itself and
a head turned towards him. the arab had been asleep, but his hand ran to his knife by instinct -- too late, for wyndham s fingers were at
his throat, and he had neither time nor chance to cry allah! before the breath left him. wyndham crept on. the sound of the sakkia was in his
ears -- the long, creaking, crying song, filling the night. and now there arose the song of the sakkia from the man at the wheel: "turn, o sakkia,
turn to the right, and turn to the left; the heron feeds by the water side -- shall i starve in my onion-field! shall the lord of the
world withhold his tears that water the land -- turn, o sakkia!" . . . the hard white stars, the cold blue sky, the far-off libyan hills in
a gold and opal glow, the smell of the desert, the deep swish of the nile, the song of the sakkia. . . . wyndham s heart beat
faster, his blood flowed quicker, he strangled a sigh in his breast. here, with death on every hand, with immediate and fearful peril before him, out of the
smell of the desert and the ghostly glow of the libyan hills there came a memory -- the memory of a mistake he had made years before with
a woman. she had never forgiven him for the mistake -- he knew it at last. he knew that no woman could ever forgive the blunder he had
made -- not a blunder of love but a blunder of self-will and an unmanly, unmannerly conceit. it had nearly wrecked her life: and he only realised it
now, in the moment of clear-seeing which comes to every being once in a lifetime. well, it was something to have seen the mistake at last. he had
come to the sluice-gate. it was impossible to open it without the fellah on the water-wheel seeing him. there was another way. he crept close and closer to
the wheel. the breath of the blindfolded buffalo was in his face, he drew himself up lightly and quickly beside the buffalo -- he was making no
