a corner, and who had a bloated pair of shoes on, which he
had exhibited while we were eating our eggs and bacon, as interesting relics
that he had taken a few days ago from the feet of a
drowned seaman washed ashore - asked me if we had seen a four-oared
galley going up with the tide? When I told him No, he said
she must have gone down then, and yet she took up too, when
she left there. 785 of 865 Great Expectations They must ha thought better
on t for some reason or another, said the Jack, and gone down.
A four-oared galley, did you say? said I. A four, said the Jack,
and two sitters. Did they come ashore here? They put in with a
stone two-gallon jar, for some beer. I d ha been glad to pison
the beer myself, said the Jack, or put some rattling physic in it.
Why? I know why, said the Jack. He spoke in a slushy voice,
as if much mud had washed into his throat. He thinks, said the
landlord: a weakly meditative man with a pale eye, who seemed to rely
greatly on his Jack: he thinks they was, what they wasn t. I
knows what I thinks, observed the Jack. You thinks Custum Us, Jack? said
the landlord. &#x2018;I do, said the Jack. Then you re wrong, Jack. Am
I! In the infinite meaning of his reply and his boundless confidence in
his Views, the fat"-It took one of his bloated shoes off, looked into
it, knocked a few stones out of it on the kitchen floor, and
put it on again. He did this with the 786 of 865 Great
Expectations air of a Jack who was so right that he could afford
to do anything. Why, what do you make out that they done with
their buttons then, Jack? asked the landlord, vacillating weakly. Done with their buttons?
returned the Jack. chucked em overboard. Swallered em. Sowed em, to come up
small salad. Done with their buttons! Don t be cheeky, Jack, remonstrated the
landlord, in a melancholy and pathetic way. A Custum Us officer knows what
to do with his Buttons, said the Jack, repeating the obnoxious word with
the greatest contempt, when they comes betwixt him and his own light. A
Four and two sitters don t go hanging and hovering, up with one
tide and down with another, and both with and against another, without there
being Custum Us at the bottom of it. Saying which he went out
in disdain; and the landlord, having no one to reply upon, found it
impracticable to pursue the subject. This dialogue made us all uneasy, and me
very uneasy. The dismal wind was muttering round the house, the tide was
flapping at the shore, and I had a feeling that we were caged
and threatened. A four-oared galley hovering about in so unusual a way as
to attract this notice, was an ugly circumstance that I could not get
rid of. When I had 787 of 865 Great Expectations induced Provis to
go up to bed, I went outside with my two companions (Startop by
this time knew the state of the case), and held another council. Whether
we should remain at the house until near the steamer s time, which
would be about one in the afternoon; or whether we should put off
early in the morning; was the question we discussed. On the whole we
deemed it the better course to lie where we were, until within an
hour or so of the steamer s time, and then to get out
in her track, and drift easily with the tide. Having settled to do
this, we returned into the house and went to bed. I lay down
with the greater part of my clothes on, and slept well for a
few hours. When I awoke, the wind had risen, and the sign
