prejudice, her favorite novel. a simulated voice emerged from the small speaker on the face of the device and gave
it back . . . in flawless japanese. "not bad." she set it carefully onto the desk. the thing was
actually almost frightening. "using this, linked to our new high-definition video and satellite, you could punch a button in your
living room and bring up people on a wall-size screen from anywhere in the world, then talk to them in
your language and be understood in theirs. it s a quantum advance over current technology." he retrieved the device, dropping
it into a desk drawer. "i must admit i m very impressed." "truthfully, so am i. where s this program
of miti s taking us?" he looked up. "but let me show you something else, which i think is even
more astonishing. of course you re aware that speech comprehension is easy compared to the really tough nut, duplicating the
human eye. since a visual image can contain billions of pieces of information, it can be very time-consuming for a
computer to analyze all those at once and figure out what it s looking at. i ve heard people at
ibm claim that for a computer to recognize something even as simple as an odd-shaped coffee cup would still require
almost an hour of processing, that to match the human eye and brain could take a computer the size of
a building. but watch." he walked over to a black metal installation attached to the wall and held up three
fingers before its small lens. then he pushed a button and spoke into a built-in microphone. "what do you see?"
she started to reply herself, then realized he was talking to the lens. this time the answer took about ten
seconds. finally a voice in passable simulation of the tokyo dialect emerged from a gray speaker beneath the lens. "that
is a human hand." "how many fingers does this hand have?" he continued. again the eerie, disembodied voice. "the normal
human hand has five fingers. this appears to have only three." "thank you." he punched a button and turned back.
"that came off the mainframe here. can you imagine the amount of memory and logic processing required to achieve what
you ve just witnessed: the data base and the computational power and speed? not to mention the recognition of my
voice commands." "how does it do it?" he paused. "tam, this is proprietary, top secret, but what you ve just
witnessed is an example of parallel processing with miti s new, still classified 256-megabit dynamic ram s." "a quarter of
a billion bits of data on a chip." she just stared. "are they writable?" "of course." he again settled himself
behind his desk. "the test versions have circuits only a hundred or so atoms wide. and this is only the
beginning. within five years, maybe no more than three, miti fully expects to have a desktop machine that will pass
the turing test." "three years?" it was almost unbelievable. passing the "turing test" meant the computer s "thoughts" and "speech"
would be so lifelike you d be able to talk with it and not realize it wasn t human. al
s end-of-the-rainbow. "as you can see, the project is getting close." he looked pensive, like some zen monk. "strictly off
the record-and i mean that-what miti is working toward is total automation. factories run by machines with human skills, intelligence,
manual dexterity. in fact, several of the robotics labs at tsukuba science city already have prototypes in advanced stages of
development." she was stunned. this was the kind of futuristic talk you heard from all the ai buffs, but it
was still mostly speculation in the u.s. and europe. japan, though, was taking it straight to commercialization. "why are you
telling me all this?" he sat silent for a moment. then he looked at her. "because it s time the
world understood something very important about this country. there are people here . . . with an agenda. and resources."
"what do you mean?" "tam, there are people, important people, who are getting fed up. know what they re saying?
try this. our country has a monarchy older than rome, a heritage of literature, art, aesthetics, equal to anything in
the west. we ve never had any colonies, any raw materials besides air and water. all we do have is
a willingness to work and save-the one natural resource running short in the west. in less than half a century
we ve risen from the most total devastation any country has ever experienced and achieved technological parity with both the
u.s. and the soviets. we launch satellites, split atoms, splice genes. but still a lot of foreigners claim all this
country can do is copy from the west, steal and commercialize other nations inventions. only a short time back the
leader of france called our prime minister a transistor salesman. that s right. a transistor salesman. " "ken, that stupid
crack was by de gaulle. years ago. it s-" "tam, look around you. this is an old country. and a
lot of influential people have long memories." "you re getting melodramatic." he shifted in his chair and studied the white
peak of fuji. "think so? don t delude yourself. believe me, the west is about to dig its own grave."
"what are you trying to tell me?" "nothing you can t see with your own eyes." he turned back. "miti
is now ready to move into the next phase. finally here s a protect that s as strategic, in its
own way, as the bomb. if japan can succeed in creating a machine capable of humanlike thinking, it will be
the most profound achievement in the history of mankind." and this project is well on its way. there may be
nothing that can stop the events that lie ahead." "stop what? what events?" "that s not a simple question." he
caught himself and eased up, smiling uncomfortably once again. "forgive me. none of this is for publication." he hesitated.
