students learn the hebrew terms - because they re terms with which they re not familiar, evenbody thinks that they
know what grace is, and it s very familiar to them. jmf: let s talk about each one of those
terms... jm: the five terms are: rachum, hannun, erek appayim, hesed ve emeth. rachum is cognate with the hebrew "womb."
it has to do, as far as i am concerned, with beginning. you can t begin anything without the rachum
of god. he is the god who gives birth, the way that the womb of a woman conceives her fetus.
when you re talking about rachum ("compassion," a lot of times it s translated), it seems that you re talking
about the care it takes to begin something that is of god. jmf: compassion, and here in the new revised
standard it s translated as "merciful." that is the opposite of what this golden calf... jm: ...doesn t have ... 
for his people. jmf: in the second term... jm: the second term, hannun, - has to do with the way
that god favors what he s begun. if he begins something, he sustains it with his favor. so i like
"favor." in your translation they use the english word "grace" for favor or hannun - grace, i like to reserve
for the term that comes after - the "slow to anger" term. because that s the term that we can
follow all the way through the history of israel on into the new testament. i think it s an important
one. don t believe that you are familiar with the way god defines himself as the "i am" he is,
as the lord and god of israel. seek to allow him to show you the significance of these terms that
he s used in order to establish himself in his relationship with his stiff-necked people, or people who prefer a
golden cow to who he is. jmf: what are the rest of the terms then? jm: erek appayim is a
wonderful, vivid concept. literally, it is "long of nostrils," has to do with a face, and an angry face will
have a nose that has on it nostrils. jmf: flared nostrils. jm: flared nostrils, and when a face gets as
angry as it can get, those nostrils are flared as formidably as they can be. when those nostrils are as
far apart as they can get, he strikes. but he is very slow to get like that. so you get
this slowness to anger, because he s got large nostrils, or however you want to ... "slow to anger" is
a very important concept. god begins something, god sustains it, and he is slow to anger with it. i associate
slowness to anger with patience - and with patience, the wisdom of god. you and i would not be here
talking together alive if god were not patient, if god were not slow to anger, if god was not free
and willing not to minister his wrath against us. jmf: even after he gets to the flared-nostril point and determines
to punish israel for its transgressions, its unfaithfulness to the covenant, in hosea 11 we find a description of that
where "i brought you out of egypt, i have cared for you as my child, and yet you always rebelled
and rebelled. and so finally, i m going to just let you have the fruit of your rebellion and you
can go to the egyptians as you want to, only you are going to go in chains and all." yet
after that he says, he can t stand that. he can t think of doing that or letting that stand.
so in the end, he will bring them out from all their captors and restore israel, and a prophecy of
what he will do with israel in the future through christ. it s not only slow to anger, it s
... jm: rachum, hannun, erek appayim, hesed ve emeth. jmf: there is a point where he blows, and then all
is... when god gets mad, that s it. it isn t it. because god s anger is tempered with all
of these other words, we haven t talked about the last two yet. jm: i love that passage you re
referring to in hosea 11 because it s an opportunity for us to learn in prophecy who god is. and
who god is, is the source of his compassion and favor, his slowness to anger and his grace and truth,
i m going to translate those last two terms with. "i can t give you up - not because you
shouldn t be given up, not because you deserve it, but because i am who i am. i will not
give you up. i will not be the god i am without you." to discover that source for the grace
of god in the old testament is absolutely necessary. jmf: "my heart recoils within me," he says, "and i cannot
give you up." that s his own response to the judgment, his own iudgment that he s brought on his
people that they very well deserved. and yet he will not let that stand. jm: in session 11 in micah,
it s a father-son relationship, all throughout the rest of the book of hosea you have a marriage relationship being
used to articulate god in covenant with his people. you have the marriage between hosea and gomer. the first ten
sessions and 12 through 14, all those sessions utilize the marriage relationship in order to speak about the covenant relationship
god has with his people. but here in 11 it s a father-son relationship. it s very telling, because it
s in the father-son relationship ultimately that we have to understand the source of the kind of rachum, hannun, erek
appayim, ve rab chesed du emeth god is toward his stiff-necked people. jmf: let s talk about the last two
terms. jm: chesed du emeth - i like to think of them as god s faithfulness to what he
