fort and at every other point along the river. he has been back to quebec. it is one of the governor s own canoes, and goes three paces
to our two." "let me cipher it out." amos green sat on a fallen maple with his head sunk upon his hands. "well," said he presently, "if it
s no good going on, and no good going back, there s only one way, and that is to go to one side. that s so, ephraim, is
it not?" "ay, ay, lad, if you can t run you must tack, but it seems shoal water on either bow." "we can t go to the north,
so it follows that we must go to the south." "leave the canoe?" "it s our only chance. we can cut through the woods and come out near
this friendly house on the richelieu. the friar will lose our trail then, and we ll have no more trouble with him, if he stays on the st.
lawrence." "there s nothing else for it," said captain ephraim ruefully. "it s not my way to go by land if i can get by water, and i
have not been a fathom deep in a wood since king philip came down on the province, so you must lay the course and keep her straight, amos."
"it is not far, and it will not take us long. let us get over to the southern bank and we shall make a start. if madame tires,
de catinat, we shall take turns to carry her." "ah, monsieur, you cannot think what a good walker i am. in this splendid air one might go on
forever." "we will cross then." in a very few minutes they were at the other side and had landed at the edge of the forest. there the guns
and ammunition were allotted to each man, and his share of the provisions and of the scanty baggage. then having paid the indians, and having instructed them to
say nothing of their movements, they turned their backs upon the river and plunged into the silent woods. all day they pushed on through the woodlands, walking in
single file, amos green first, then the seaman, then the lady, and de catinat bringing up the rear. the young woodsman advanced cautiously, seeing and hearing much that
was lost to his companions, stopping continually and examining the signs of leaf and moss and twig. their route lay for the most part through open glades amid
a huge pine forest, with a green sward beneath their feet, made beautiful by the white euphorbia, the golden rod, and the purple aster. sometimes, however, the great
trunks closed in upon them, and they had to grope their way in a dim twilight, or push a path through the tangled brushwood of green sassafras or
scarlet sumach. and then again the woods would shred suddenly away in front of them, and they would skirt marshes, overgrown with wild rice and dotted with little
dark clumps of alder bushes, or make their way past silent woodland lakes, all streaked and barred with the tree shadows which threw their crimsons and clarets and
bronzes upon the fringe of the deep blue sheet of water. there were streams, too, some clear and rippling where the trout flashed and the king-fisher gleamed, others
dark and poisonous from the tamarack swamps, where the wanderers had to wade over their knees and carry adele in their arms. so all day they journeyed mid
the great forests, with never a hint or token of their fellow-man. but if man were absent, there was at least no want of life. it buzzed and
chirped and chattered all round them from marsh and stream and brushwood. sometimes it was the dun coat of a deer which glanced between the distant trunks, sometimes
the badger which scuttled for its hole at their approach. once the long in-toed track of a bear lay marked in the soft earth before them, and once
amos picked a great horn from amid the bushes which some moose had shed the month before. little red squirrels danced and clattered above their heads, and every
oak was a choir with a hundred tiny voices piping from the shadow of its foliage. as they passed the lakes the heavy gray stork flapped up in
front of them, and they saw the wild duck whirring off in a long v against the blue sky, or heard the quavering cry of the loon from
amid the reeds. that night they slept in the woods, amos green lighting a dry wood fire in a thick copse where at a dozen paces it was
invisible. a few drops of rain had fallen, so with the quick skill of the practised woodsman he made two little sheds of elm and basswood bark, one
to shelter the two refugees, and the other for ephraim and himself. he had shot a wild goose, and this, with the remains of their biscuit, served them
both for supper and for breakfast. next day at noon they passed a little clearing, in the centre of which were the charred embers of a fire.
