married, he can not be an american citizen without proof that brad was his father. since brad is gone, that
will be almost impossible since even he did not know that he was going to be a father. and obviously
you can t be his real father. that is not the right term, neh?" "biological father is the term that
you want." "hai. i understand. anyway. i can name him anything that i want, except that in japan, his given
name must be the same as mine or his father s. so it will have to be tomanaga." "you have
said that you want to name him after brad. which i think is a great idea. so...bradford burgess davis tomanaga.
after i adopt him, you or he could drop tomanaga or not." "i have thought more about it since we
became lovers and said that we would be married. i think that i would like to name him bradford davis
tomanaga. later we can make tomanaga his middle name. neither of us have a middle name. but he could have
one, neh?" "okay, am i correct? you want to find a place to live here in koza before the baby
comes. then move in to it before you go back conus, rick?" bob kruse asked. "correct. tomi s uncle gave
us the name of a buddy of his who owns some of these hybrid houses such as you guys live
in. tomi needs to rest. we ve already been on the go all day. but i thought that you and
i, bob, could go look at a couple of his places and see if they re what tomi and i
want. if so, the four of us can look at it again on monday. then let the women decide on
it. you re off tomorrow right, bob? what do you think cheryl?" rick asked her. "what does tomako say? never
mind. i know the answer to that one." "actually, you smart-ass. it was a joint decision started by her. a
logical solution to a long term problem of being close to the hospital for the kid to be born in.
the doctor for the baby s first couple years. baby sitters, you and the girls. and easy travel for tomi
to go back and forth to school. with me gone for who knows how long, she ll have a close
and strong support system. after i come back, and we re married, we ll be close to the base for
all the obvious reasons." "all right already. i can see the look of relief on our girl s beautiful and
delicate face. i think it s a great idea. let s get hot and get it done, guys." cheryl hugged
tomi. kissed her on both cheeks before coming to rick and planting a real lip smacker on him. "remember that
one my love. it is the last lips you will ever get from me. the only reason i did that
is because you make me so proud of the kid i raised for the last four and a half years.
you re doing great kid!" "this is the apartment that i like best." rick said as the four friends walked
along the clean sidewalk along a narrow paved city street. the light blue painted concrete buildings on both side of
the block were two and three stories. on the ground floor of some were small stores that were selling almost
anything that a family would use. the smell of a multitude of tea mixtures drifted out the open door of
the tea shop. next to it was a kitchen store that had dishes, stainless and aluminum flatware, pots and pans
and even imaginable kind of utensils hung in the windows. a grocery and general store that sold eventhing from fresh
vegetables, eggs, meat and even ice cream, to beer and coke, was across the street. "well?" bob asked as they
roamed the two bedroom apartment. "i agree with rick. this is the nicest and it s brand new. western bathroom
fixtures and the kitchen is bigger than ours, cheryl." tomi had gone out the back door onto the concrete deck
which overlooked a small enclosed yard. they would share the yard with the middle aged couple who owned the house.
the woman owned and ran the hair dresser s shop on the ground floor. "this is really nice. i could
be happy here. and we would have more room than in my apartment with a room just for the baby."
tomi was smiling and appeared relaxed as she looked down into the small grass plot and a few bright flowers
that were bordering the small yard. "we can afford it, rick. even for myself and the baby it s not
too much money. who owns it?" she asked. "the hair dresser and her husband. bob and i talked to them
both last night and they re really nice. the husband is a security guard for the us army at sukiran."
rick had walked out onto the deck with tomi and she stepped closer to him and put her arm around
his waist and leaned her forehead against his chest. "are we too close to the kruses house?" she whispered into
his chest. "i don t think so. it s about five or six blocks that way." and pointed with his
chin roughly down the street. "if you think it is, we can look some more, do you?" "iie. i only
wanted to be sure that you had thought of that and was comfortable with it. i do know where the
hospital is. i can walk or for 10 cents, ride a sukoshi cab." "i think it s fine if it
is what you want. not just what you can live with, but really like it, tomi." "oh i do. i
love having the stores so close and still being quiet. away from the bars and big stores where the gis
go." tomi leaned against him. let s take it and live here for a while before you leave. then
