around it. occupying three of the chairs were the mayor and two other individuals. for some reason leon could hear
a faint musical sound in the background. he didn t know where it came from, but he did know that
it came from the room. the music was calming and soothing. "detective leon robertson, i presume," said the mayor as
she stood. leon strolled over to shake her hand, as he did with the other two persons in the room.
"let me introduce you to my two associates. to your right is dr. sally mcginnis and to your left is
mr. quadry xavier. please, have a seat, detective." leon followed the request, plopping down next to the doctor. "dr. mcginnis
is a symphonicneuropsychiatrist. it s a rapidly growing new scientific field in which sounds, music, and noises are used to...well,
i should let sally explain it to you." mcginnis cleared her throat. "it s rather quite simple. various frequencies and
pitches can manipulate neurological patterns of brain waves. this is because sound travels in waves. if sound waves and brain
waves collide together, they can be absorbed and assimilated into one another, thus forming a new wave. we scientists have
named this wave the symphonicneuro wave. "the brain can either retain the symphonicneuro wavesuch as with emotions, memories, and desiresor
they can also be expelled outwards in the form of symphonic noises that attack the subconscious of various life forms
around the object; thus manipulating that life form by creating a new symphonicneuro wave that affects the brain as the
original symphonicneuro wave, but with different results. my colleagues and i have actually pin-pointed which sounds could be used to
manipulate certain neurological patterns in the brain." leon blinked his eyes twice. he stared at dr. mcginnis with a blank
expression. "what the heck did you just say?" "what she said," snapped mr. quadry xavier irritably, "is that using different
sounds we can manipulate people individually or a mass number." "sort of like mind control?" asked robertson. quadry grunted. "yes,
but that term is derogatory. we cannot say that to explain what it is we re doing." "what are you
doing?" "i ll take this one," said mayor julian. "as dr. mcginnis said earlier, she figured out what sounds cause
what desires in the brain, one of the sounds she tested reduced the desire to commit crimes in humans, using
that knowledge, we re going to flood the valman streets with that sound, thus removing crime as a whole!" "we
like to call it chalkboard crime reduction, or c.c.r. for short," remarked xavier proudly. "i came up with the idea."
"mr. xavier has successfully marketed c.c.r. to other crime ravaged cities in america and the world: new york, l.a., chicago,
detroit, richmond, philadelphia, kansas city, houston, washington, d.c., and baltimore in the us; tokyo, moscow, paris, and london from around
the world have been turned upside down by utilizing c.c.r." mayor julian was ecstatic and beaming with a large smile
as she spoke. "i m so happy that mr. xavier here has accepted my application to be enrolled in this
remarkable program!" robertson smiled. "this does sound pretty good, no pun intended. but, what does this have to do with
me?" holdtimer s smile quickly turned into a frown. "i m sorry to say this, but the punks that beat
you and left you for dead will not be put on trial. instead, the courts will be closed and the
judges disassembled. c.c.r. will commence as soon as this meeting is over. that s why i summoned you over here,
to tell you that. you re the best detective on the force, and deserved an explanation; please do not be
angry." "will i lose my job, also?" said leon as he frowned. "since you will have defeated crime, i guess
i ll have nothing to detect, correct?" holdtimer did not verbally respond, but she did lower her head. leon s
eyebrows arched, as he was becoming angry. "i get it," sighed leon, "now that c.c.r. is here you don t
need us cops anymore. after twenty years on the force, risking my life for this sorry city, this is how
it ends? i m being replaced by a sound? chalkboard crime reduction, why the heck is it called that for?"
suddenly, the music he heard when he first walked into the room grew louder. leon felt his anger rapidly drain
from his body. a slight smile was on quardy s face. "that s because the sound that removes thoughts of
criminal activity from the brain is the sound of fingernail tips being dragged on a chalkboard. you know, that irritating
screeching noise that the bad kid in elementary school always made when he went up to the board to do
a math problem? the sound is raised in frequency to where it is detected subconsciously by the human brain; we
accompany it with an infectious techno beat, so it performs the symphonicneuro wave function while at the same time entertaining
the brain." "and it s going to be played twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week, three hundred sixty-five
days in a year," added the mayor with much enthusiasm. "sounds good to me," said leon with a sheepish grin.
"it s settled then," remarked the mayor. "detective, you may leave now. thank you for understanding our desperate situation." robertson
rose from his seat. he shook the hands of the other three people in the room one last time and
disappeared out the door. it had been a little over six months since c.c.r. had been utilized in valman and
crime was virtually extinct in the city. the news could not stay on for an hour or even thirty minutes
anymore. the news consisted only of the weather and sports report, national and world events, and upcoming local activities. the
evening news lasted about fifteen minutesand that s including commercials. valman no longer needed police officers, judges, criminal lawyers, and
other professionals that dealt with crime. a new factory, run by quadry xavier and dr. sally mcginnis, opened in
