to fly over the surface of the water. in five minutes they gained the land. the officer leaped to the
pier, and offered her hand to milord. a carriage was in waiting. is this carriage for us? asked milord. yes,
madame, replied the officer. the hotel, then, is far away? at the other end of the town. very well, said
milord; and he resolutely entered the carriage. the officer saw that the baggage was fastened carefully behind the carriage; and
this operation ended, she took her place beside milord, and shut the door. immediately, without any order being given or
her place of destination indicated, the coachwoman set off at a rapid pace, and plunged into the streets of the
city. so strange a reception naturally gave milord ample matter for reflection; so seeing that the young officer did not
seem at all disposed for conversation, he reclined in his corner of the carriage, and one after the other passed
in review all the surmises which presented themselves to his mind. at the end of a quarter of an hour,
however, surprised at the length of the journey, he leaned forward toward the door to see whither he was being
conducted. houses were no longer to be seen; trees appeared in the darkness like great black phantoms chasing one another.
milord shuddered. but we are no longer in the city, sir, said he. the young officer preserved silence. i beg
you to understand, lady, i will go no farther unless you tell me whither you are taking me. this threat
brought no reply. oh, this is too much, cried milord. help! help! no voice replied to his; the carriage continued
to roll on with rapidity; the officer seemed a statue. milord looked at the officer with one of those terrible
expressions peculiar to his countenance, and which so rarely failed of their effect; anger made his eyes flash in the
darkness. the young woman remained immovable. milord tried to open the door in order to throw himself out. take care,
madame, said the young woman, coolly, you will kill yourself in jumping. milord reseated himself, foaming. the officer leaned forward,
looked at him in her turn, and appeared surprised to see that face, just before so beautiful, distorted with passion
and almost hideous. the artful creature at once comprehended that he was injuring himself by allowing her thus to read
his soul; he collected his features, and in a complaining voice said: in the name of heaven, lady, tell me
if it is to you, if it is to your government, if it is to an enemy i am to
attribute the violence that is done me? no violence will be offered to you, madame, and what happens to you
is the result of a very simple measure which we are obliged to adopt with all who land in england.
then you don t know me, sir? it is the first time i have had the honor of seeing you.
and on your honor, you have no cause of hatred against me? none, i swear to you. there was so
much serenity, coolness, mildness even, in the voice of the young woman, that milord felt reassured. at length after a
journey of nearly an hour, the carriage stopped before an iron gate, which closed an avenue leading to a castle
severe in form, massive, and isolated. then, as the wheels rolled over a fine gravel, milord could hear a vast
roaring, which he at once recognized as the noise of the sea dashing against some steep cliff. the carriage passed
under two arched gateways, and at length stopped in a court large, dark, and square. almost immediately the door of
the carriage was opened, the young woman sprang lightly out and presented her hand to milord, who leaned upon it,
and in his turn alighted with tolerable calmness. still, then, i am a prisoner, said milord, looking around him, and
bringing back his eyes with a most gracious smile to the young officer; but i feel assured it will not
be for long, added he. my own conscience and your politeness, lady, are the guarantees of that. however flattering this
compliment, the officer made no reply; but drawing from her belt a little silver whistle, such as boatswains use in
ships of war, she whistled three times, with three different modulations. immediately several women appeared, who unharnessed the smoking horses,
and put the carriage into a coach house. then the officer, with the same calm politeness, invited her prisoner to
enter the house. he, with a still-smiling countenance, took her arm, and passed with her under a low arched door,
which by a vaulted passage, lighted only at the farther end, led to a stone staircase around an angle of
stone. they then came to a massive door, which after the introduction into the lock of a key which the
young woman carried with her, turned heavily upon its hinges, and disclosed the chamber destined for milord. with a single
glance the prisoner took in the apartment in its minutest details. it was a chamber whose furniture was at once
appropriate for a prisoner or a free woman; and yet bars at the windows and outside bolts at the door
decided the question in favor of the prison. in an instant all the strength of mind of this creature, though
drawn from the most vigorous sources, abandoned him; he sank into a large easy chair, with his arms crossed, his
head lowered, and expecting every instant to see a judge enter to interrogate him. but no one entered except two
or three marines, who brought his trunks and packages, deposited them in a corner, and retired without speaking. the officer
superintended all these details with the same calmness milord had constantly seen in her, never pronouncing a word herself, and
making herself obeyed by a gesture of her hand or a sound of her whistle. it might have been said
that between this woman and her inferiors spoken language did not exist, or had become useless. at length milord
