Pip, pursued the lawyer, I address the rest of what I have to
say, to you. You are to understand, first, that it is the request
of the person from whom I take my instructions, that you always bear
the name of Pip. You will have no objection, I dare say, to
your great expectations being encumbered with that easy condition. But if you have
any objection, this is the time to mention it. My heart was beating
so fast, and there was such a singing in my ears, that I
could scarcely stammer I had no objection. I should think not! Now you
are to understand, secondly, Mr. Pip, that the name of the person who
is your liberal benefactor remains a profound secret, until the person chooses to
reveal it. I am empowered to mention that it is the intention of
the person to reveal it at first hand by word of mouth to
yourself. When or where that intention may be carried out, I cannot say;
no one can say. It may be years hence. Now, you are distinctly
to understand that you are most positively prohibited from making any inquiry on
this head, or any allusion or 246 of 865 Great Expectations reference, however
distant, to any individual whomsoever as the individual, in all the communications you
may have with me. If you have a suspicion in your own breast,
keep that suspicion in your own breast. It is not the least to
the purpose what the reasons of this prohibition are; they may be the
strongest and gravest reasons, or they may be mere whim. This is not
for you to inquire into, The condition is laid down. Your acceptance of
it, and your observance of it as binding, is the only remaining condition
that I am charged with, by the person from whom I take my
instructions, and for whom I am not otherwise responsible. That person is the
person from whom you derive your expectations, and the secret is solely held
by that person and by me. Again, not a very difficult condition with
which to encumber such a rise in fortune; but if you have any
objection to it, this is the time to mention it. Speak out. Once
more, I stammered with difficulty that I had no objection. I should think
not! Now, Mr. Pip, I have done with stipulations. Though he called me
Mr. Pip, and began rather to make up to me, he still could
not get rid of a certain air of bullying suspicion; and even now
he occasionally shut his eyes and threw his finger at me while 247
of 865 Great Expectations he spoke, as much as to express that he
knew all kinds of things to my disparagement, if he only chose to
mention them. We come next, to mere details of arrangement. You must know
that, although I have used the term expectations more than once, you are
not endowed with expectations only. There is already lodged in my hands, a
sum of money amply sufficient for your suitable education and maintenance. You will
please consider me your guardian. Oh! for I was going to thank him,
I tell you at once, I am paid for my services, or I
shouldn t render them. It is considered that you must be better educated,
in accordance with your altered position, and that you will be alive to
the importance and necessity of at once entering on that advantage. I said
I had always longed for it. Never mind what you have always longed
for, Mr. Pip, he retorted; keep to the record. If you long for
it now, that s enough. Am I answered that you are ready to
be placed at once, under some proper tutor? Is that it? I stammered
yes, that was it. Good. Now, your inclinations are to be consulted. I
don t think that wise, mind, but it s my trust. Have
