shoots and how to pull them just right. how to know when the small fruits and berries were ready, and
how far down the branch the tips could be eaten. he had been the first to see how the sharp
stick could work, and now all his males were practicing what he felt that he knew about using them, and
about making them, but how had he come to know this? and how could he show them about the bright
light that was no more? had he been the only one to see it? and the things that had only
been there when his eyes were closed, where had they come from and what did seeing them mean? remembering, as
he climbed down the massive trunk, how he had frightened them earlier, he wondered what part of this newest of
new things he could show them. if only he could find a way, without that happening again. he knew that
they felt toward him now like they had never felt before, but he remembered that he must be patient and
not try to share too much too soon. but how would he not forget? he remembered how big the open
land had seemed, and how far the waters had appeared to run before they met the big water. he felt
a touch on his arm. his mate was there beside him. anxious eyes looked at him. was there something that
had not been there before? she looked quickly toward where ohures had begun to move toward the openness of their
new foraging places. he wondered about these things as he led them toward the place on the waters where they
all had seen. the young tittered with excitement as they neared the place. it was good, they had remembered. one
of the males dropped away to become the lookout. the ohures pushed the butt of their sticks into the soft
sand near the water s edge. it was good. they all wanted to see again. they were more relaxed now
that they didn t fear their enemy in the way that they had before. if only he could find a
way to show them now, but how? he must find a way! he looked back at the forest near by:
it was long and deep. he looked into the land toward where the waters flowed. it went on and on,
getting smaller the farther he looked. but he remembered that it had seemed to go on so much farther than
he could see now. he had felt so strongly that he must go into it. he was feeling that way
again, like something was pulling him toward it. was something of what he had experienced still there? some part that
he could not see, but could almost feel? he felt the excitement well up again, but he must try to
be patient. the sharp end of his stick touched the sand where he stood watching them as they renewed their
experience. it made a mark. suddenly curious, he made anohure mark, and anohure, and anohure. he made a mark by
dragging the stick that went around all the ohure marks. then anohure, and then made it go straight. he looked
at the forest. he made anohure straight mark, a long one, the way that the forest seemed to go. he
looked at the waters, and made a mark in the direction that they ran, a very long one. some of
the young ones saw him and followed, making the sounds that expressed their curiosity. he went back to where he
had started as the remainder also drew near. he issued the high-pitched bark of attention. he pointed his stick at
the marks inside the round one. he beat on his chest and pointed a finger at them, sticking the sharp
end of his stick into where the ohure marks were and hooted the sound of gathering. his mate came to
him slowly, a look of anxious questioning again in her eyes accented by her ohure facial expressions, but not quite
fear this time. he reached out and gathered her to him, grimacing his approval as their little one raced over
to stand close. he beckoned to the ohures, some of whom had already started. soon they were all standing together.
he thumped the butt of his stick three times, and then waved his arm around at them ending with pointing
at himself as he repeated his grunting and thumping gestures. they moved in closer. he renewed his grimace of approval,
as he wondered if they really got it. did they understand even a little or were they just copying what
he did? he stepped out from among them, pushing his hand at them not to follow. he stepped behind the
long mark that went in the same direction as the forest. then, with the bark of attention, he made anohure
long mark close to the first one. when he had finished he pointed the stick at the forest, hooting for
attention. now he made anohure mark behind the first two repeating his sound and gestures. the males now brought their
sticks to him and helped make many more marks. the females, wearing the grimace of helpfulness, came to stand on
the many marks as the young began to dance little jigs of excitement around their mohures and the marks as
they were made. he again slipped out from them as they busied themselves, and with anohure bark of attention, he
hurriedly made a mark beside the very long one that went where the waters flowed. quickly the males followed showing
the grimaces of pleasure at the game that they felt that he had led them into, with the young, trilling
little giggles of pleasure as they raced after, scuffing sand out of the many marks as they were made. the
females followed more slowly, the mewling sounds of rising anxiety growing louder as they went. suddenly he stopped and pounded
the ground three times as he gave anohure hoot of attention. he pointed back along the marks toward the
