kids? he suggested. more interesting than just sitting and talking to yourself? i hesitated, and then because he was uncle
axel and my best friend among the grown-ups, i said: but i was. oh, she isn t here. she s
at home -- at least, she s near home, in a little secret tree-house her brothers built in the spinney,
i explained. it s a favourite place of hers. he was not able to understand what i meant at first.
he kept on talking as though it were a make-believe game; but after i had tried for some time to
explain he sat quiet, watching my face as i talked, and presently his expression became very serious. after i d
stopped he said nothing for a minute or two, then he asked: this isn t play-stuff -- it s the
real truth you re telling me, davie boy? and he looked at me hard and steadily as he spoke. he
threw away the remains of his grass-stalk, and pulled another out of the rick. after he had thoughtfully bitten a
few pieces off that and spat them out he looked directly at me again. it s this, he said, speaking
very seriously. i want you to keep it secret. i want you to promise that you will never, never tell
anyone else what you have just told me -- never. it s very important: later on you ll understand better
how important it is. you mustn t do anything that would even let anyone guess about it. will you promise
me that? his gravity impressed me greatly. i had never known him to speak with so much intensity. it made
me aware, when i gave my promise, that i was vowing something more important than i could understand. he kept
his eyes on mine as i spoke, and then nodded, satisfied that i meant it. we shook hands on the
agreement. then he said: well, not exactly "hear", and not exactly "see", i told him. there are -- well, sort
of shapes -- and if you use words you make them clearer so that they re easier to understand. but
you don t have to use words -- not say them out loud as you were doing just now? oh,
no -- it just helps to make it clearer sometimes. it also helps to make things a lot more dangerous,
for both of you. i want you to make another promise -- that you ll never do it out loud
any more. you ll understand when you re older how important it is, he told me, and then he went
on to insist that i should get rosalind to make the same promises. i did not tell him anything about
the others because he seemed so worried already, but i decided i d get them to promise, too. at the
end he put out his hand again, and once more we swore secrecy very solemnly. i put the matter to
rosalind and the others the same evening. it crystallized a feeling that was in all of us. i don t
suppose that there was a single one of us who had not at some time made a slip or two
and brought upon himself, or herself, an odd, suspicious look. a few of these looks had been warnings enough to
each; it was such looks, not comprehended, but clear enough as signs of disapproval just below the verge of suspicion,
that had kept us out of trouble. there had been no acknowledged, co-operative policy among us. it was simply as
individuals that we had all taken the same self-protective, secretive course. but now, out of uncle axel s anxious insistence
on my promise, the feeling of a threat was strengthened. it was still shapeless to us, but it was more
real. furthermore, in trying to convey uncle axel s seriousness to them i must have stirred up an uneasiness that
was in all their minds, for there was no dissent. they made the promise willingly; eagerly, in fact, as though
it was a burden they were relieved to share. it was our first act as a group; it made us
a group by its formal admission of our responsibilities towards one another. it changed our lives by marking our first
step in corporate self-preservation, though we understood little of that at the time. what seemed most important just then was
the feeling of sharing . . . then, almost on top of that personal event came another which was of
general concern; an invasion in force from the fringes. as usual there was no detailed plan to deal with it.
as near as anyone came to organization was the appointment of headquarters in the different sectors. upon an alarm it
was the duty of all able-bodied men in the district to rally at their local headquarters, when a course of
action would be decided according to the location and extent of the trouble. as a method of dealing with small
raids it had proved good enough, but that was all it was intended for. as a result, when the fringes
people found leaders who could promote an organized invasion there had been no adequately organized system of defence to delay
them. they were able to push forward on a broad front, mopping up little bands of our militia here and
there, and looting as they liked, and meeting nothing to delay them seriously until they were twenty-five miles or more
into civilized parts. by that time we had our forces in somewhat better order, and neighbouring districts had pulled themselves
together to head off a further widening, and harry the flanks. our men were better armed, too. quite a lot
of them had guns, whereas the fringes people had only a few that they had stolen, and depended chiefly on
bows, knives, and spears. nevertheless, the width of their advance made them difficult to deal with. they were better woodsmen
and cleverer at hiding themselves than proper human beings, so that they were able to press on another fifteen
