they tend to replicate, We tend to assimilate, they are Trojan horses, We are dumb Herculeses, they succumb in order to triumph,
We triumph in order to succumb. And I see no difference between the three terms that you all used. "Love", "cruelty" and
"impotence" are to me three sides of the same coin. We love in order to overcome our (perceived) impotence. We burden our
love with impossible dreams: to become children again. We want to be unconditionally loved and omnipotent. No wonder love invariably ends in
disappointment and disillusionment. It can never fulfil our inJated expectations. This is when We become cruel. We avenge our paradise lost. We
inJict upon our lover the hell that he or she fostered in us. We do so impotently because we still love, even
as we fervently hate (Freudian ambivalence}. Thus we always love cruelly, impotently and desperately, the desperation of the doomed." Monopolies and Oligopolies
The Wall Street Journal has published this elegiac list: "Twenty years ago, cable television was dominated by a patchwork of thousands of
tiny, family-operated companies. Today, a pending deal would leave three companies in control of nearly two-thirds of the market. In 1990, three
big publishers of college textbooks accounted for 35% of industry sales. Today they have 62% ... Five titans dominate the (defense) industry,
and one of them, Northrop Grumman ... made a surprise (successful) $5.9 billion bid for (another) TRW ... In 1996, when Congress
deregulated telecommunications, there were eight Baby Bells. Today there are four, and dozens of small rivals are dead. In 1999, more than
10 significant firms offered help-wanted Web sites. Today, three firms dominate." Mergers, business failures, deregulation, globalization, technology, dwindling and more cautious venture
capital, avaricious managers and investors out to increase share prices through a spree of often ill-thought acquisitions - all lead inexorably to
the congealing of industries into a few suppliers. Such market formations are known as oligopolies. Oligopolies encourage customers to collaborate in oligopsonies
and these, in turn, foster further consolidation among suppliers, service providers, and manufacturers. Market purists consider oligopolies - not to mention cartels
- to be as villainous as monopolies. Oligopolies, they intone, restrict competition unfairly, retard innovation, charge rent and price their products higher
than they could have in a perfect competition free market with multiple participants. Worse still, oligopolies are going global. But how does
one determine market concentration to start with? The Herfindahl-Hirschmann index squares the market shares of firms in the industry and adds up
the total. But the number of firms in a market does not necessarily impart how low - or high - are barriers
to entry. These are determined by the structure of the market, legal and bureaucratic hurdles, the existence, or lack thereof of functioning
institutions, and by the possibility to turn an excess profit. The index suffers from other shortcomings. Often the market is difficult to
define, Mergers do not always drive prices higher, University of Chicago economists studying Industrial Organization - the branch of economics that deals
with competition - have long advocated a shift of emphasis from market share to - usually temporary - market power. Influential antitrust
thinkers, such as Robert Bork, recommended to revise the law to focus solely on consumer welfare. These - and other insights -
were incorporated in a theory of market contestability. Contrary to classical economic thinking, monopolies and oligopolies rarely raise prices for fear of
attracting new competitors, went the new school. This is especially true in a "contestable" market - where entry is easy and cheap.
An Oligopolistic firm also fears the price-cutting reaction of its rivals if it reduces prices, goes the Hall, Hitch, and Sweezy theory
of the Kinked Demand Curve. If it were to raise prices, its rivals may not follow suit, thus undermining its market share.
Stackleberg s amendments to Cournot s Competition model, on the other hand, demonstrate the advantages to a price setter of being a
first mover. In "Economic assessment of oligopolies under the Community Merger Control Regulation, in European Competition law Review (Vol 4, Issue 3),
Juan Briones Alonso writes: "At first sight, it seems that ... oligopolists will sooner or later find a way of avoiding competition
among themselves, since they are aware that their overall profits are maximized with this strategy. However, the question is much more complex.
First of all, collusion without explicit agreements is not easy to achieve. Each supplier might have different views on the level of
prices which the demand would sustain, or might have different price preferences according to its cost conditions and market share. A company
might think it has certain advantages which its competitors do not have, and would perhaps perceive a conJict between maximising its own
profits and maximizing industry profits. Moreover, if collusive strategies are implemented, and oligopolists manage to raise prices significantly above their competitive level,
each oligopolist will be confronted with a conflict between sticking to the tacitly agreed behaviour and increasing its individual profits by cheating
on its competitors. Therefore, the question of mutual monitoring and control is a key issue in collusive oligopolies." Monopolies and oligopolies, went
the contestability theory, also refrain from restricting output, lest their market share be snatched by new entrants. In other words, even monopolists
behave as though their market was fully competitive, their production and pricing decisions and actions constrained by the "ghosts" of potential and
threatening newcomers. In a CRIEFF Discussion Paper titled "From Walrasian Oligopolies to Natural Monopoly - An Evolutionary Model of Market Structure", the
authors argue that: "Under decreasing returns and some fixed cost, the market grows to full capacity at Walrasian equilibrium (oligopolies); on the
other hand, if returns are increasing, the unique long run outcome involves a profit-maximising monopolist." While intellectually tempting, contestability theory has little
to do with the rough and tumble world of business. Contestable markets simply do not exist. Entering a market is never cheap,
nor easy. Huge sunk costs are required to counter the network effects of more veteran products as well as the competitors brand
recognition and ability and inclination to collude to set prices. Victory is not guaranteed, losses loom constantly, investors are forever edgy, customers
are fickle, bankers itchy, capital markets gloomy, suppliers beholden to the competition. Barriers to entry are almost always formidable and often insurmountable.
In the real world, tacit and implicit understandings regarding prices and competitive behavior prevail among competitors within oligopolies. Establishing a reputation for
collusive predatory pricing deters potential entrants. And a dominant position in one market can be leveraged into another, connected or derivative, market.
But not everyone agrees. Ellis Hawley believed that industries should be encouraged to grow because only size guarantees survival, lower prices, and
innovation. Louis Galambos, a business historian at Johns Hopkins University, published a 1994 paper titled "The Triumph of Oligopoly". In it, he
strove to explain why firms and managers - and even consumers - prefer oligopolies to both monopolies and completely free markets with
numerous entrants. Oligopolies, as opposed to monopolies, attract less attention from trustbusters. Quoted in the Wall Street Journal on March 8, 1999,
Galambos wrote: "Oligopolistic competition proved to be beneficial ... because it prevented ossification, ensuring that managements would keep their organizations innovative and
efficient over the long run." In his recently published tome "The Free-Market Innovation Machine - Analysing the Growth Miracle of Capitalism",
