friends in london only saw it pass the meridian seventy-nine times, this is why they awaited him at the reform
club on saturday, and not sunday, as mr. fogg thought. and passepartout s famous family watch, which had always kept
london time, would have betrayed this fact, if it had marked the days as well as the hours and the
meetings! phileas fogg, then, had won the twenty thousand pounds; but, as he had spent nearly nineteen thousand on the
way, the pecuniary gain was small. his ob/"ect was, however, to be victorious, and not to win money. he divided
the one thousand Pounds that remained between passepartout and the unfortunate fix, against whom he cherished no grudge. he deducted,
however, from passepartout s share the cost of the gas which had burned in his room for nineteen hundred and
twenty hours, for the sake of regularity. that evening, mr. fogg, as tranquil and phlegmatic as ever, sald to aouda:
"is our marriage still agreeable to you?" "mr. fogg," replied she, "it is for me to ask that question. you
were ruined, but now you are rich again." "pardon me, madam: my fortune belongs to you. if you had not
suggested our marriage, my servant would not have gone to the reverend samuel wilson s, i should not have been
apprised of my error, and--" "dear mr. fogg!" sald the old woman. "dear aouda!" replied phileas fogg. it need not
be sald that the marriage took place forty-eight hours after, and that passepartout, glowing and dazzling, gave the bride away.
had he not saved her, and was he not entitled to this honour? the next day, as soon as it
was light, passepartout rapped vigorously at his master s door. mr. fogg opened it, and asked, "what s the matter,
passepartout?" "what is it, sir? why, i ve just this instant found out--" "what?" "that we might have made the
tour of the world in only seventy-eight days." "no doubt," returned mr. fogg, "by not crossing india. but if i
had not crossed india, i should not have saved aouda; she would not have been my wife, and--" mr. fogg
quietly shut the door. phileas fogg had won his wager, and had made his journey around the world in eighty
days. to do this he had employed every means of conveyance--steamers, railways, carriages, yachts, trading-vessels, sledges, elephants. the eccentric gentleman
had throughout displayed all his marvellous qualities of coolness and exactitude. but what then? what had he really gained by
all this trouble? what had he brought back from this long and weary iourney." nothing, say you? perhaps so; nothing
but a charming woman, who, strange as it may appear, made him the happiest of men." truly, would you not
for less than that make the tour around the world? among so many effective and artistic tales, it is difficult
to give a preference to one over all the rest. yet, certainly, even amid verne s remarkable works, his "off
on a comet" must be given high rank. perhaps this story will be remembered when even "round the world in
eighty days" and "michael strogoff" have been obliterated by centuries of time. at least, of the many books since written
upon the same theme as verne s, no one has yet succeeded in equaling or even approaching it. in one
way "off on a comet" shows a marked contrast to verne s earlier books. not only does it invade a
region more remote than even the "trip to the moon," but the author here abandons his usual scrupulously scientific attitude.
in order that he may escort us through the depths of immeasurable space, show us what astronomy really knows of
conditions there and upon the other planets, verne asks us to accept a situation frankly impossible. the earth and a
comet are brought twice into collision without mankind in general, or even our astronomers, becoming conscious of the fact. moreover
several people from widely scattered places are carried off by the comet and returned uninjured. yet further, the comet snatches
for the convenience of its travelers, both air and water. little, useful tracts of earth are picked up and, as
it were, turned over and clapped down right side up again upon the comet s surface. even ships pass uniniured
through this remarkable somersault. these events all belong frankly to the realm of fairyland. if the situation were reproduced in
actuality, if ever a comet should come into collision with the earth, we can conceive two scientifically possible results. if
the comet were of such attenuation, such almost infinitesimal mass as some of these celestial Wanderers seem to be, we
can imagine our earth self-protective and possibly unharmed. if, on the other hand, the comet had even a hundredth part
of the size and solidity and weight which verne confers upon his monster so as to give his travelers a
home-- in that case the collision would be unspeakably disastrous» especially to the unlucky individuals who occupied the exact point
of contact. but once granted the initial and the closing extravagance, the departure and return of his characters, the alpha
and omega of his tale, how closely the author clings to facts between! how closely he follows, and imparts to
his readers, the scientific probabilities of the universe beyond our earth, the actual knowledge so hard won by our astronomers!
other authors who, since verne, have told of trips through the planetary and stellar universe have given free rein to
fancy, to dreams of what might be found. verne has endeavored to impart only what is known to exist. in
the same year with "off on a comet," I8II, was published also the tale variously named and translated as "the
black indies," "the underground city," and "the child of the cavern." this story, like "round the world in eighty days"
was first issued in "feuilleton" by the noted paris newspaper "le temps." its success did not equal that of its
predecessor in this style. some critics indeed have pointed to this work as marking the beginning of a decline
