complaint upon myself ." I will speak in the bitterness of my soul. I will say unto God, Do not
condemn me ." show me wherefore thou contendest with me. Is it good unto thee that thou shouldest oppress, that
thou shouldest despise the work of thine hands, and shine upon the counsel of the wicked .I Hast thou eyes
of flesh .I Or seest thou as man seeth .I Are thy days as the days of man .I Are
thy years as man s days, that thou inquirest after mine iniquity, and searchest after my sin .I Thou knowest
that I am not wicked ; and there is none that can deliver out of thine hand. Thine hands have
made me and fashioned me together round about ; yet thou dost destroy me. Remember, I beseech thee, that thou
hast made me as the clay ; and wilt thou bring me into dust again .I Hast thou not poured
me out as milk, and curdled me like cheese .I Thou hast clothed me with skin and flesh, and hast
fenced me with bones and sinews. Thou hast granted me life and favor, 34 35 1 2 3 4 5
6 I 8 I I0 1I 12 1146 Iob 11 and thy visitation hath preserved my spirit, And these things
hast thou hid in thine heart : I know that this is with thee. If I sin, then thou markest
me, and thou wilt not acquit me from mine iniquity. If I be wicked, woe unto me I and if
I be righteous, yet will I not lift up my head. I am full of confusion ; therefore see thou
mine affliftion ." for it increaseth. Thou huntest me as a fierce lion : and again thou showest thyself marvelous
upon me. Thou renewest thy witnesses against me, and increasest thine indignation upon me ; changes and war are against
me. wherefore then hast thou brought me forth out of the womb .I Oh that I had given up the
ghost, and no eye had seen me ! I should have been as though I had not been ; I
should have been carried from the womb to the grave. Are not my days few .I Cease then, and let
me alone, that I may take comfort a little, before I go whence I shall not return, even to the
land of darkness and the shadow of death ; a land of darkness, as darkness itself ; and of the
shadow of death, without any order, and where the light is as darkness. I1 Zophar Accuses ﬂob of Iniquity Then
answered Zophar the Naamathite, and said, Should not the multitude of words be answered .I And should a man full
of talk be justified .I Should thy lies make men hold their peace .I And when thou mockest, shall no
man make thee ashamed .I 13 14 15 16 1I 18 1I 20 21 22 1 2 3 114I tab
11 For thou hast said, My doctrine is pure, and I am clean in thine eyes. But oh that God
would speak, and open his lips against thee ; and that he would show thee the secrets of wisdom, that
they are double to that which is I Know therefore that God exacteth of thee less than thine iniquity deserveth.
canst thou by searching find out God .I Cans! thou find out the Almighty unto perfection .I It is as
high as heaven ; what canst thou do .I deeper than hell ," what canst thou know .I The measure
thereof is longer than the earth, and broader than the sea. If he cut off, and shut up, or gather
together, then who can hinder him .I For he knoweth vain men : he seeth wickedness also ," will he
not then consider it .I For vain man would be wise, though man be born like a wild ass s
colt. If thou prepare thine heart, and stretch out thine hands toward him ," if iniquity be in thine hand,
put it far away, and let not wickedness dwell in thy tabernacles. For then shalt thou lift up thy face
without spot ." yea, thou shalt be steadfast, and shalt not fear ." because thou shalt forget thy misery, and
remember it as waters that pass away : and thine age shall be clearer than the noonday ; thou shalt
shine forth, thou shalt be as the morning. And thou shalt be secure, because there is hope ; yea, thou
shalt dig about thee, and thou shalt take thy rest in safety. Also thou shalt lie down, and none shall
make thee afraid ; yea, many shall make suit unto thee. Sut the eyes of the wicked shall fail, 4
5 6 I e I 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 1I 18 1I 20 1148 Fob 12 and
they shall not escape, and their hope shall be as the giving up of the ghost. 12 ﬂob Affirms God
s Power and wisdom And Iob answered and said, No doubt but ye are the people, and wisdom shall die
with you. 8ut I have understanding as well as you ." I am not inferior to you : yea, who
knoweth not such things as these .I I am as one mocked of his neighbor, who calleth upon God, and
he answereth him : the just upright man is laughed to scorn. He that is ready to slip with his
feet is as a lamp despised in the thought of him that is at ease. The tabernacles of robbers prosper,
and they that provoke God are secure ; into whose hand God bringeth abundantly. 8ut ask now the beasts, and
they shall teach thee ." and the fowls of the air, and they shall tell thee ." or speak to
the earth, and it shall teach thee ; and the fishes of the sea shall declare unto thee. who knoweth
not in all these that the hand of the Lord hath wrought this .I in whose hand is the soul
of every living thing, and the breath of all mankind. Doth not the ear try words .I and the mouth
taste his meat .I with the ancient is wisdom ," and in length of days understanding, with him [God] is
wisdom and strength, he hath counsel and understanding. 1 2 3 4 5 6 I 8 I 10 11 12
13 114I Iob 13 Behold, he breaketh down, and it cannot be built again : he shutteth up a man,
and there can be no opening. Behold, he withholdeth the waters, and they dry up ." also he sendeth
