to prove that electrons, quarks, and black holes exist. But we cannot design even one experiment to falsify the existence of a
God who is outside the minds of believers (and, thus, if the experiment fails, prove that God exists "out there"). Additionally, we
cannot design even one experiment to prove that God exists outside the minds of believers. what about the "argument from design"? The
universe is so complex and diverse that surely it entails the existence of a supreme intelligence, the world s designer and creator,
known by some as "God". On the other hand, the world s richness and variety can be fully accounted for using modern
scientific theories such as evolution and the big bang. There is no need to introduce God into the equations. Still, it is
possible that God is responsible for it all. The problem is that we cannot design even one experiment to falsify this theory,
that God created the Universe (and, thus, if the experiment fails, prove that God is, indeed, the world s originator). Additionally, we
cannot design even one experiment to prove that God created the world. we can, however, design numerous experiments to falsify the scientific
theories that explain the creation of the Universe (and, thus, if these experiments fail, lend these theories substantial support). we can also
design experiments to prove the scientific theories that explain the creation of the Universe. Vt does not mean that these theories are
absolutely true and immutable, They are not, Our current scientific theories are partly true and are bound to change with new knowledge
gained by experimentation. Our current scientific theories will be replaced by newer, truer theories. But any and all future scientific theories will
be falsifiable and testable. kznowledge and belief are like oil and water. They don t mix. kznowledge doesn t lead to belief
and belief does not yield knowledge. Belief can yield conviction or strongly-felt opinions. But belief cannot result in knowledge. Still, both known
things and believed things exist. The former exist "out there" and the latter "in our minds" and only there. But they are
no less real for that. Note on the Geometry of Religion The three ma/"or monotheistic religions of the world - iudaism, Christianity,
and "Islam - can be placed on the two arms of a cross. Fudaism would constitute the horizontal arm: eye to eye
with God. The iew believes that God is an interlocutor with whom one can reason and plead, argue and disagree. Mankind is
complementary to the Divinity and fulfills important functions. God is incomplete without human activities such as prayer and obeying the Commandments. Thus,
God and Man are on the same plane, collaborators in maintaining the Universe. The vertical arm of the cross would be limned
by the upward-oriented Christianity and the downward-looking Muslim. iewish synagogues are horizontal affairs with divine artifacts and believers occupying more or less
the same surface, Not so Christian churches in which God {or his image} are placed high above the congregation, skyward, striving towards
heaven or descending from it. Vndeed, iudaism lacks the very concept of "heaven", or "paradise", or, for that matter, "hell". As opposed
to both Islam and Christianity, Fudaism is an earthly faith. Islam posits a clear dichotomy between God and Man. The believer should
minimize his physical presence by crumbling, forehead touching the ground, in a genuflection of subservience and acceptance {"islam") of God s greatness,
omnipotence, omniscience, and just conduct. Thus, the Muslim, in his daily dealings with the divine, does not dare look up. The faithful
s role is merely to interpret God s will (as communicated via Muhammad). Risk, Economic Risk transfer is the gist of modern
economies. Citizens pay taxes to ever expanding governments in return for a variety of "safety nets" and state-sponsored insurance schemes. Taxes can,
therefore, be safely described as insurance premiums paid by the citizenry. Firms extract from consumers a markup above their costs to compensate
them for their business risks. Profits can be easily cast as the premiums a firm charges for the risks it assumes on
behalf of its customers - i,e,, risk transfer charges, Depositors charge banks and lenders charge borrowers interest, partly to compensate for the
hazards of lending - such as the default risk. Shareholders expect above "normal" - that is, risk-free - returns on their investments
in stocks. These are supposed to offset trading liquidity, issuer insolvency, and market volatility risks. "in his recent book, "when all Else
Fails: Government as the Ultimate Risk Manager", David Moss, an associate professor at Harvard Business School, argues that the all-pervasiveness of modern
governments is an outcome of their unique ability to reallocate and manage risk. He analyzes hundreds of examples - from bankruptcy law
to income security, from flood mitigation to national defense, and from consumer protection to deposit insurance, The limited liability company shifted risk
from shareholders to creditors. Product liability laws shifted risk from consumers to producers. And, we may add, over-generous pension plans shift risk
from current generations to future ones. Export and credit insurance schemes - such as the recently established African Trade "insurance Agency or
the more veteran American OPI6 (Overseas Private Vnvestment Corporation}, the British ECGD, and the French c"OFA6"E - shift political risk from buyers,
project companies, and suppliers to governments, Risk transfer is the traditional business of insurers, But governments are in direct competition not only
with insurance companies - but also with the capital markets. Futures, forwards, and options contracts are, in effect, straightforward insurance policies. They
cover specific and narrowly defined risks: price fluctuations - of currencies, interest rates, commodities, standardized goods, metals, and so on, "Transformer" companies
- collaborating with insurance firms - specialize in converting derivative contracts (mainly credit default swaps) into insurance policies, This is all part
of the famous kteynes-Hicks hypothesis. As Holbrook working proved in his seminal work, hedges fulfill other functions as well - but even
he admitted that speculators assume risks by buying the contracts. Many financial players emphasize the risk reducing role of derivatives. Banks, for
instance, lend more - and more easily - against hedged merchandise. Hedging and insurance used to be disparate activities which required specialized
skills. Derivatives do not provide perfect insurance due to non-eliminable residual risks (e.g., the "basis risk" in futures contracts, or the definition
of a default in a credit derivative}. But as banks and insurance companies merged into what is termed, in French, "bancassurance", or,
in German, "Allfinanz" - so did their hedging and insurance operations. "in his paper "Risk Transfer between Banks, "insurance companies, and Capital
Markets", David Rule of the Bank of England flatly states: "At least as important for the efficiency and robustness of the international
financial system are linkages through the growing markets for risk transfer, Banks are shedding risks to insurance companies, amongst others; and life
insurance companies are using capital markets and banks to hedge some of the significant market risks arising from their portfolios of retail
savings products  These interactions {are} effected primarily through securitizations and derivatives. "In principle, firms can use risk transfer markets to disperse
risks, making them less vulnerable to particular regional, sectoral, or market shocks. Greater inter-dependence, however, raises challenges for market participants and the
authorities: in tracking the distribution of risks in the economy, managing associated counterparty exposures, and ensuring that regulatory, accounting, and tax
