let s get back inside." she took his hand and stood up, pausing to look into the blue vault of
the sky beyond the flames and smoke of the trees. "clem?" her voice quavered and watery blur filled her eyes.
in her tears the white scimitar shape of the moon seemed to float like a reflection, clementine was up there
beyond the blue of the sky in the black depths of space, orbiting silently above phaeon. lloyd andersen had just
sacrificed his life to get a message to her. "did you hear, clem? did you?" eyes fixated on the blue
world floating in front of him, pleased to see his task of raining destruction down upon the hoonahs proceeding well.
from a cage set on the desk, he lifted a possum-like creature by its tail, regarding it thoughtfully. "notoonu hoonah,"
he murmured, "little hoonah, whose blood tastes so sweet, i must make a decision about your cousins on eka, soon."
a subordinate entered and saluted. "hoonah seesque tonoh-" he reported. "the enemy transmitter aiming its signal at noqui has been
silenced," "hnnh," muttered saurgon, "dooleenko-excellent. has the entire planet been swept of radio transmitters, tekkoo?" "it has, with the exception
of a few puny mobile ones of little consequence." "and all hoonah military units have been paralyzed?" "they have." "good.
have you had any communication from the high priest of life?" "none since shortly after his landing, he is missing,"
"and, i presume, dead by the hand of a hoonah." saurgon twisted the tail of the little hoonah and looked
at it looking at him, nose to nose. "so, gar s voice in support of the earthly hoonahs is silenced."
"he has not been heard from in more than a day." "in the absence of gar to defend them, i
decide here and now what shall become of the hoonahs." he killed the hoonah with a swift bite and gulped
it down whole, "should you seek oogon s concurrence?" "oogon?" said saurgon, gulping hard to force the hoonah down. "he
has never held any opinion of earthly hoonahs except that they must be exterminated. i myself am only curious to
find out how they taste. gar would argue their worthiness for some better fate, but i have no such compunction."
tekkoo nodded, and saurgon looked again at the smoke wisps on eka. "begin targeting their population centers, tekkoo. you must
cause a great dying in their cities such as has not been seen since the asteroid kela destroyed our world."
went down the wooden stairway to the cellar and pulled the string that switched on the bare light bulb in
the ceiling fixture. all around her was her father s larder of supplies. every wall of the concrete cellar was
lined with wooden shelves iammed with boxes and every box contained something that now seemed more essential than it had
just days before. there were cases of canned goods, from beets to chili to garbanzos to beef stew, big cartons
of bandages and medicines, and stacks of household supplies that would put a wholesale store to shame. on one shelf
she spotted what she was looking for: a plastic storage box iammed full of cartridge packages labeled winchester 30-30, an
almost infinite supply for her rifle. she took out a couple of cartridge cases along with some gun oil and
cloth and then shoved the box back in its place on the shelf. "thank you, daddy," she murmured, thinking of
the debt they owed to her father s survivalist tendencies. he d believed the ranch should be ready to withstand
a nuclear winter, an economic collapse, terrorism, or an environmental catastrophe, despite kit s doubts and those of her mother
before her. now she realized his prodigious setting-aside of food and gear would be his greatest legacy to her. a
bitter sense of loss gnawed at her heart, but she fought it. she knew what he d say. never give
up hope, little girl. a cattleman lives on hope: hope that the weather will be better next year, hope that
the price of beef will rise, hope that the barn can take another windstorm. you ve always got hope to
go on, no matter how bad things get. she went back upstairs wondering exactly what she could hope for. as
she stepped into the pantry hall and closed the basement door, she spotted chase out the back door. he was
puttering around the creature s fighting machine, investigating the control knobs and gadgets that lined the inside of the cockpit,
she watched the supple movements of his tall athletic frame as he leaned over the machine, i m lucky he
came along, she thought, she already knew he could be counted on in a tussle with a tyrannosaurus, and the
handsome face and those hanks of dark hair hanging down the back of his neck didn t hurt. maybe daddy
had a point about hope. that kiss on the hilltop had been a sign of better times ahead, hadn t
it? she went into the kitchen, sat down at the table and began breaking down her rifle and oiling the
parts. no telling how soon she might need it, so she wanted it clean and reliable when the time came.
from the living room came the sound of a woman s scream, a recorded scream, not a real one. kit
got up and Went to investigate, stifling a laugh when she saw dr, o and gar watching a movie the
professor had put on the dvd player. ogilvey sat on the couch and the creature stood in its corner staring
at the old black-and-white classic king kong. the screamer was fay wray, perched atop a tree while kong and a
tyrannosaurus battled for the right to possess her. gar and ogilvey talked softly over the soundtrack, one moment laughing, the
next serious, kit couldn t make sense of gar s cacklings, nor for that matter ogilvey s pidgin-dinosaur replies, but
she settled against the door iam and listened to them for a moment. ogilvey chatted excitedly, deriving a boyish
