to the moon. i shall have my revenge. you took my brother fred axtell to mars and left him there.
i determined to get him back, and to that end i disguised myself as one of the boys, and got
aboard. when we were safely away from the earth, i would have compelled you to go to mars and rescue
my brother. but my plan has failed. i will have my revenge, though. you will never reach the moon, even
if you do get started. beware! george, the brother of fred axtell, will avenge his fate!" "the brother of the
crazy machinist!" gasped iack. "now i understand his strange actions. he s crazy, too--he wanted to go to mars--he says
we will never reach the moon! say, look here!" cried iack, raising his voice. "here s bad news! that scoundrel
has put some game up on us! maybe he s tampered with the machinery! it won t be safe to
start for the moon until we ve looked over everything carefully! he says he s fixed us, and perhaps he
has!" from the proiectile came hurrying the would-be moon travellers, a vague fear in their hearts. in the gathering twilight
professor henderson read slowly the note dick had brought. then he passed it to professor roumann. the latter shook his
shaggy gray hair, and murmured something in german. "where did you meet the man?" asked iack of the young motorcyclist.
"about two miles down the road. he was walking along, sort of talking to himself, and i was afraid of
him. he called to me, and offered me a half a dollar to deliver this message. i didn t want
to at first, but he said if i didn t he d hurt me, so i took it. is it
anything bad?" "we don t know yet," replied mark. "no, that is the worst of it," added professor roumann. "he
has made a threat, but we can t tell whether or not he will accomplish it. we are in the
dark. he may have done some secret damage to our machinery, and it will take a careful inspection to show
it." "and will the inspection have to be made now?" asked iack. "i think so," answered professor henderson gravely. "it
would not be safe to start for the moon and have a breakdown before we got there. we must wait
until morning to begin our trip," "it will be the safest," spoke the german, and the boys, in spite of
the fact that they were anxious to get under way, were forced to the same conclusion. "then if We re
going to camp here for the night," proposed old andy, "what s the matter with me and the boys having
a hunt for that man? we ve put up with enough from him, and it s time he was punished.
if we let him go on, he ll annoy us all the while, if not now, then after we get
back from the moon, i m for giving him a chase and having him arrested." "he certainly deserves some punishment,
if only for the way he treated mark," was iack s opinion, his chum having related how he was drugged
and kept a prisoner in the secret room, and how he escaped in time to unmask the villain. "well," said
professor henderson, after some thought, "it might not be a bad plan to see if you could get that scoundrel
put in some safe place, where he could make no more trouble for us. i guess the lunatic asylum is
where he belongs, though i can sympathize with him on account of his brother, but it was not our fault
that the crazy machinist went with us to mars. he was a stowaway, and went against our wishes, and when
he got there he tried to iniure us." "then may mark, andy and i see if we can find this
man?" asked iack. "yes, but be careful not to get separated; and don t run any risks," cautioned the professor.
"mr. roumann and i, with the help of washington, will go carefully over all the machinery, and every part of
the proiectile, to see if any hidden damage has been done. but don t stay out too late. you had
better notify the police. they may be able to give you some aid, and i don t mind letting them
know about it now, as we will soon be away from here, because, no matter if they do send detectives
or constables spying about now, they can learn none of our secrets." waiting only to partake of a hasty meal,
the two boys and the veteran hunter set out, andy with his gun over his shoulder and his sharp eyes
on the lookout for any sign of axtell, though they hardly expected to find him in the vicinity of the
proiectile. taking the road, on which dick iohnson said he had encountered the man, the two lads and andy proceeded,
making inquiries from time to time of persons they met. but no one had seen axtell, and the insane man,
for such he seemed to be, appeared to have dropped out of sight. on into the village the searchers went,
and there they reported matters to the chief of police, telling him only so much as was necessary to give
him an understanding of the situation. "i ll send a couple of my best constables right out on the case,"
said the chief. "we ve just appointed two new ones, and i guess they ll be glad to arrest somebody."
"let them look out that this fellow doesn t drug them and carry them away," cautioned mark. "oh, i guess
my constables can look out for theirselves," spoke the chief proudly. once more the trailers sallied forth to renew their
search. they thought perhaps they might find their man lingering in the town, but a search through the principal streets
did not disclose him, and mark proposed that they return to their home for the night, as he was
