even sent a memorandum on the subiect to the colonel here. i must admit that we did not envisage any
such serious matters as have occurred - but we did point out the desirability of having some means of ensuring
that the children should conform to normal social and legal rules. and what happened? you, colonel, passed it on to
higher authorities, and eventually we received a reply appreciating our concern, but assuring us that the department concerned had every
confidence in the social psychologists who had been appointed to instruct and guide the children. in other words they saw
no way in which they could exert control over them, and simply were hoping that under suitable training no critical
situation would arise. - and there, i must confess, i sympathize with the department, for i am still quite unable
to see how the children can be compelled to obey rules of any kind, if they do not choose to.
mr leebody entwined his fingers, looking miserably helpless. but something must be done, he reiterated. it only needed an occurrence
of this kind to bring it all to a head, now i m afraid of it boiling over any minute.
it isn t a matter of reasoning, it s more primitive. almost every man in the village is at the
scythe and stone tonight. nobody called a meeting; they ve /"ust gravitated there, and most of the women are fluttering
round to one another s houses, and whispering in groups. it s the kind of excuse the men have always
wanted - or it might be. excuse? i put in. i don t quite see ? cuckoos, explained zellaby. you
don t think the men have ever honestly liked these children do you? the fair face they ve put on
it has been mostly for their wives sakes, considering the sense of outrage that must be abiding in their subconsciouses,
it does them great credit - a little mitigated perhaps by one or two examples like harriman s which made
them scared to touch the children. the women - most of them, at any rate - don t feel like
that. they all know well enough now that, biologically speaking, they are not even their own children, but they did
have the trouble and pain of bearing them - and that, even if they resent the imposition deeply, which some
of them do, still isn t the kind of link they can just snip and forget. then there are others
who - well, take miss ogle, for instance. if they had horns, tails, and cloven hooves miss ogle, miss lamb,
and a number of others would still dote on them. but the most one can expect of the best of
the men is toleration. it has been very difficult, added mr leebody. it cuts right across a proper family relationship.
there s scarcely a man who doesn t resent their existence. we ve kept on smoothing over the consequences, but
that is the best we ve been able to do. it s been like something always smouldering... and you think
this pawle business will supply the fatal draught? bernard asked. it could do. if not, something else will, mr leebody
said forlornly, if only there were something one could do , before it 5 too late. there isn t, my
dear fellow, zellaby said decisively. i ve told you that before, and it s time you began to believe me.
you ve done marvels of patching up and pacifying, but there s nothing fundamental that you or any of us
can do because the initiative is not ours; it lies with the children themselves. i suppose i know them as
well as anybody. i ve been teaching them, and doing my best to get to know them since they were
babies, and i ve got practically nowhere - nor have the grange people done any better, however pompously they may
cover it up. we can t even anticipate the children because we don t understand, on any but the broadest
lines, what they want, or how they think. what s happened to that boy who was shot, by the way?
his condition could have some effect on developments. the rest of them wouldn t let him go. they sent the
ambulance away. dr anderby up there is looking after him. there are quite a number of pellets to be removed,
but he thinks he ll be all right, said the vicar. i hope he s right. if not, i can
see us having a real feud on our hands, said zellaby, it is my impression that we already have, In!"
leebody remarked unhappily. not yet, zellaby maintained. it takes two parties to make a feud. so far the aggression has
been by the village. you re not going to deny that the children murdered the two pawle boys? no, but
it wasn t aggressive. i do have some experience of the children. in the first case their action was a
spontaneous hitting back when one of them was hurt; in the second, too, it was defensive - don t forget
there was a second barrel, loaded, and ready to be fired at someone. in both cases the response was over
drastic, i ll grant that, but in intent it was manslaughter, rather than murder. both times they were the provoked,
not the provokers. in fact, the one deliberate attempt at murder was by david pawle. if someone hits you with
a car, and you kill him for it, said the vicar, it seems to me to be murder, and that
seems to me to be provocation. and to david pawle it was provocation. he waited for the law to administer
/ustice, and the law failed him, so he took the matter into his own hands. was that intended murder? -
or was it intended justice? the one thing it certainly was not, was justice, zellaby said firmly. it was feuding.
he attempted to kill one of the children, chosen at random, for an act they had committed collectively. what
