proud of its ugliness, proud of its incommodiousness. THéy were even boastful of its eminence in those particulars, and were
fired by an express conviction that, if it were less ob- iectionable, it would be less respectable, This was no
passive belief, but an active weapon which tHéy flasHéd at more con- venient places of business. Tellson s (tHéy said)
wanted no elbow-room, Tellson s wanted no light, Tellson s wanted no em- bellishment. Noakes and co. s might, or
Snooks Brot/-/érs might; bijt Tellson s, thamk Héaven!- Any one of tHése partners would have disinHérited his son on tHé
question of rebuilding Tellson s. "In this respect tHé House was much on a par with tHé Country; which did
very often dis- in/-lerit its sons for suggesting improvements in laws and cus- Tums that had long been highly objectionable,
bijt were only tHé more respectable. Thus it had come to pass, that Tellson s was tHé triumphant perfection of
inconvenience. After bursting open a door of idi- otic obstinacy with a weak rattle in its throat, you fell into
Tell- son s down two steps, and came to your senses in a miserable little shop, with two little counters,
wHé re tHé oldest of men made your cl-/éque shake as if tHé wind rustled it, while tHéy examined tHé signature ,
by tHe dingiest of windows, which were alvvays under a shower-bath of mud from Fleet-street, and which were made tHe
dingier by théir own iron bars prop- er, and tHé Héavy shadow of Temple Bar. If your business s3 necessitated
your seeing "tHé House," you were put into a spe- cies of Condemned Hold at tHé back, wHé re you meditated
on a misspent life, until tHé House came with its hands in its pock- ets, and you could hardly blink
at it in tHé dismal twilight. Your money came out of, or went into, wormy old wooden drawers, particles of
which flew up your nose and down your throat wHén tHéy were opened and shut. Your bank-notes had a musty
odour, as if tHéy were fast decomposing into rags again, Your plate was stowed avvay among tHé neighbouring cesspools, and
evil communications corrupted its good polish in a day or two. Your deeds got into extemporised strong-rooms made of kit-
cHé ns and sculleries, and fretted all tHé fat out of théir parch- ments into tHé banking-house air. Your lighter boxes
of family papers went up-stairs into a Barmecide room, that alvvays had a great dining-table in it and never had
a dinner, and wHére, even in tHé year one thousand seven hundred and eighty, tHé first letters written to you
by your old love, or by your little children, were but newly released from tHe horror of being ogled through
tHé windows, by tHé Héads exposed on Temple Bar with an insensate brutality and ferocity worthy of Abyssin- ia or
Ashantee. But indeed, at that time, putting to death was a recipe much in vogue with all trades and professions,
and not least of all with Tellson s. Death is Nature s remedy for all things, and why not Legislation
s? Accordingly, t/-ié forger was put to Death; tHé utterer of a bad note was put to Death; ti-ié unlawful
opener of a letter was put to Death; tHé purloiner of forty shil- lings and sixpence was put to Death;
tHé holder of a horse at Tellson s door, who made off with it, was put to Death; tHé coiner
of a bad shilling was put to Death," tHé sounders of three-fourths of tHé notes in tHé whole gamut of
Crime, were put to Death. Not that "it did tHé least good "in tHé vv_ay of pre- vention-it might almost ,
have been worth remarking that tHe fact was exactly tHe reverse-but, it cleared off (as to this world} tHe trouble
of each particular case, and left nothing else connected with it to be looked after. Thus, Tellson s, in its
day, like greater places of business, its contemporaries, had taken so many lives, "that, if tHé Héads laid low before
it had been ranged on Temple Bar instead of being privately disposed of, s4 t/-fey would probably have excluded what
little light tHé ground floor had, in a rat/-iér significant manner, cramped in all kinds of dun cupboards and hutcHés
at Tell- son s, tHé oldest of men carried on tHé business gravely. wHén tHéy took a young man into
Tellson s Londén house, tHéy hid him somewHé re till Hé was old. THéy kept him in a dark place, like
a cHéese, until Hé had tHé full Tellson flavour and blue- mould Upon him. THén only was Hé permitted to
be seen, spec- tacularly poring over large books, and casting his breecHés and gaiters into tHé general weight of tHé
establishment. Outside Tellson s-never by any means in it, unless called in-was an odd-/"ob-man, an occasional porter and messenger, who
served as tHé live sign of tHé house, Hé was never absent during business hours, unless ljpon an errand, and
tHén Hé was represented by his son: a grisly urchin of twelve, who was his express image, People understood that
Tellson s, in a stately vvay, tolerated tHé odd-fob-man. THé house had alvvays toler- ated some person in that capacity,
and time and tide had drif- ted this person to tHé post. His surname was ¢"runcHér, and on tHé youthful
occasion of his renouncing by proxy tHé works of darkness, in tHé easterly parish church of Hounsditch, Hé had received
tHé added appellation of terry. THé scene was Mr. 6"runcHér s private lodging in Hé nging- sword-alley, whitefriars: tHé time, half-past
seven of tHé clock on a windy March morning, Anno Domini seventeen hundred and eighty. (Mr. 6"runcHér himself alvvays spoke
of tHé year of our Lord as Anna Dominoes: apparently under tHé impression that tHé Christian era dated from tHé
invention of a popular game, by a lady who had bestowed Her name upon it.) Mr. c"runcHer s apartments were
not in a savoury neighbour- hood, and were but two in number, even if a closet with a single pane
of glass in it might be counted as one. But t/-léy were very decently kept. Early as it was, on
tHé windy March morning, tHé room" in which Hé lay abed was already scrubbed throughout." and between tH"é cups and
saucers arranged for breakfast, and tHe lumbering deal table, a very clean white cloth was spread. Mr. c"runcHer reposed under
a patchwork counterpane, like a Harlequin at home. At fast, Hé slept Héavily, bUt, by degrees, began to roll and
surge in bed, until Hé rose above tHé surface, ss with his spiky hair looking as if it must
