he hath done shall he die. 1B:2I Again, when the wicked man turneth away from his wickedness that he hath
committed, and doeth that which is lawful and right, he shall save his soul alive. 1B:2B Because he considereth, and
turneth away from all his transgressions that he hath committed, he shall surely live, he shall not die. ? Ezekiel
- chapter 01B 1B:2I Yet saith the house of Israel: The way of the L-rd is not equal. 0 house
of Israel, is it My ways that are not equal? is it not your ways that are unequal? 1B:30 Therefore
I will iudge you, 0 house of Israel, every one according to his ways, saith the L-rd GOD. Return ye,
and turn yourselves from all your transgressions; so shall they not be a stumblingblock of iniquity unto you, 1B:31 Cast
away from you all your transgressions, wherein ye have transgressed; and make you a new heart and a new spirit;
for why will ye die, 0 house of Israel? 1B:32 For "I have no pleasure in the death of him
that dieth, saith the L-rd GOD; wherefore turn yourselves, and live. -- Ezekiel - Chapter 01B -- ? Ezekiel -
Chapter 0I.I II:I Moreover, take thou up a lamentation for the princes of Israel, 1I:2 and say: How was thy
mother a lioness: among lions she couched, in the midst of the young lions she reared her whelps! 1I:3 And
she brought up one of her whelps, he became a young lion; and he learned to catch the prey, he
devoured men. 1I:4 Then the nations assembled against him, he was taken in their pit: and they brought him with
hooks unto the land of Egypt. 1I:s Now when she saw that she was disappointed, and her hope was lost,
then she took another of her whelps, and made him a young lion. 1I:6 And he went up and down
among the lions, he became a young lion; and he learned to catch the prey, he devoured men. 1I:? And
he knew their castles, and laid waste their cities; and the land was desolate, and the fulness thereof, because of
the noise of his roaring. 1I:B Then the nations cried out against him on every side from the provinces; and
they spread their net over him, he was taken in their pit. 1I:I And they put him in a cage
with hooks, and brought him to the king of Babylon; that they might bring him into strongholds, so that his
voice should no more be heard upon the mountains of Israel. 1I:10 .I Ezekiel - Chapter 01I Thy mother was
like a vine, in thy likeness, planted by the waters: she was fruitful and full of branches by reason of
many waters. 1I:11 And she had strong rods to be sceptres for them that bore rule: and her stature was
exalted among the thick branches, and she was seen in her height with the multitude of her tendrils, 1I:12 But
she was plucked up in fury, she was cast down to the ground, and the east wind dried up her
fruit; her strong rods were broken off and withered, the fire consumed her. 1I:13 And now she is planted in
the wilderness, in a dry and thirsty ground. 1I:14 And fire is gone out of the rod of her branches,
it hath devoured her fruit, so that there is in her no strong rod to be a sceptre to rule,
This is a lamentation, and it was for a lamentation. -- Ezekiel - Chapter 01I -- ? Ezekiel - Chapter
020 20:1 And it came to pass in the seventh year, in the fifth month, the tenth day of the
month, that certain of the elders of Israel came to inquire of the Lord, and sat before me, 20:2 And
the word of the Lord came unto me, saying: 20:3 Son of man, speak unto the elders of Israel, and
say unto them: Thus saith the L-rd GOD: Are ye come to inquire of Me? As I live, saith the
L-rd G00, I will not be inquired of by you. 20:4 wilt thou iudge them, son of man, wilt thou
fudge them? cause them to know the abominations of their fathers; 20:s and say unto them: Thus saith the L-rd
GOD: In the day when I chose Israel, and lifted up My hand unto the seed of the house of
Iacob, and made Myself known unto them in the land of Egypt, when I lifted up My hand unto them,
saying: I am the Lord your God," 20:6 in that day I lifted up My hand unto them, to bring
them forth out of the land of Egypt into a land that I had sought out for them, flowing with
milk and honey, which is the beauty of all lands; 20:I and "I said unto them: Cast ye away every
man the detestable things of his eyes, and defile not yourselves with the idols of Egypt: I am the Lord
your God. 20:B But they rebelled against Me, and would not hearken unto Me; they did not every man cast
away the detestable things of their eyes, neither did they forsake the idols of Egypt; then I said I would
pour out My fury upon them, to spend My anger upon them in the midst of the land of Egypt,
20:I But I wrought for My name s sake, that it should not be profaned in the sight of the
nations, ? Ezekiel - Chapter 020 among whom they Were, in whose sight I made Myself known unto them, so
as to bring them forth out of the land of Egypt. 20:10 So I caused them to go forth out
of the land of Egypt, and brought them into the wilderness. 20:11 And I gave them My statutes, and taught
them Mine ordinances, which if a man do, he shall live by them. 20:12 Moreover also I gave them My
sabbaths, to be a sign between Me and them, that they might know that I am the Lord that sanctify
them. 20:13 But the house of Israel rebelled against Me in the wilderness; they walked not in My statutes, and
they reietted Mine ordinances, which if a man do, he shall live by them, and My sabbaths they greatly profaned;
then I said I would pour out My fury upon them in the wilderness, to consume them. 20:14 But I
wrought for My name S sake, that it Should not be profaned in the sight of the nations, in whose
sight I brought them out. 20:1s Yet also I lifted up My hand unto them in the wilderness, that
