flights were military recon, but now we know differently. so, if they have the amulet as you suggest then we
have to be even more cautious." i asked saleem, "so, is there something we can do to help? if you
can believe colonel sokolov, they will be back to the campsite soon. i am guessing that it s almost daybreak.
what s going to happen to those at the camp?" "don t concern yourself. when colonel sokolov returns to the
camp he will find nothing or no one there. he will assume that we broke camp early and headed back
down the mountain. we had everything at the camp dismantled and brought below. i appreciate your concern for the rest
of the group, but ohure than your friend, everyone else that was up there is actually with us. therefore, if
the colonel chooses to land and look around he will find nothing and then hopefully be on his way." "what
about frank?" at that moment, frank was led to the room. the expression on his face was one of amazement
and awe, his lower /"aw hung down with his mouth wide open. he was nudged with a rifle muzzle through
the doorway. "did you see...-" asked frank. "it s pretty amazing, isn t it?" i asked rhetorically. we heard a
disturbance out in the main cavern. i went to the doorway in an attempt to see what the commotion was
all about. the guards blocked the way. i saw one of amir s men come running up to him, yelling,
"amir! amirl". when he got closer we could see from our holding area that he was actually a boy, maybe
14, noticeably excited. he was out of breath, having trouble getting out what he wanted to say. amir placed his
hands on the boy s shoulders. "sinan, slow down, take a deep breath, take your time and tell me what
you need to say," said amir calmly. the boy took a deep breath, then quickly blurted out "amir, the muscovs
are back!" "where?" "they are landing at the campsite." "it s okay, i was expecting them. they won t find
anything there," amir said calmly. "if they come down the trail, they could find the ark," said the boy excitedly.
"sinan, thank you for letting me know, but everything is going to be all right. now run along and let
the ohures know to keep watch." i was impressed at how amir kept his composure. like any good leader, his
brohures looked to him for guidance and how to deal with pressure. the boy started to say something else, but
thought better of it then turned and ran back out. "amir!" i yelled. he walked back to our holding area.
"what now, iack? i :I2 sure you were listening, so you know i have more to deal with right now
than the three of you." "yeah, i heard the boy tell you that the russians are back. now we know
that sokolov is a man of his word." "i had no doubts about them coming back." "yeah? well, you don
t seem too concerned. may i ask why not?" i asked. "as i told you before, the camp has been
cleared away, there is nothing for them to find. therefore, i would expect them to poke around, then leave without
incident." "what if his men find the trail?" "lack, we have kept the ark safe for a very long time.
i don t believe the russians offer any more threat than we have faced in the past. and i did
know for a fact that they were coming. not because i believed the muscov, but i happen to have a
very reliable source." "then i m surprisingd you and the brohurehood aren t making preparations to greet them." "thanks for
your concern but who says we aren t. we have been preparing for /"ust such an occasion for a long
time." "could it be you re underestimating them? if there is something we can do to help, we will," i
said. "we don t want the russians to get their hands on the ark any more than you do." "help?
what could you possibly do to help?" "i brought a distress beacon with us. all we have to do is
switch it on and help will come. sokolov has an entire military force that he can call on, but with
the beacon you can summon nato forces to handle the situation before it gets out of hand. that will certainly
make it more of a level playing field." "i appreciate the thought iack, but it is you who is underestimating
our abilities. can t you understand? i don t want to give an open invitation to even more people to
come here. it seems you have forgotten that we are trying to keep the ark s location a secret. inviting
more people here defeats the purpose. we did find your beacon when we were packing up the camp. it wouldn
t work down here anyway. radios either, there is a metallic property in the walls of the cave that doesn
t allow radio signals to penetrate." "one of your men could take it outside and activate it. no one would
need to know about the ark. the nato forces would be coming here with the sole purpose to check out
the beacon. their presence alone would deter any further russian actions and then they would most likely escort them back
across the border. i can t imagine that the russians would risk an international incident." "you still don t get
it, iack. there is no need for concern. you continue to underestimate us. we aren t the cave dwellers that
you think we are. just because we spend much of our time here in these caves does not make us
neanderthals. we have many fail-safes for protecting the ark. do not write us off so easily." "i didn t mean
to imply anything... no, that s not true. i ve got to make you understand. you re no match
