to be wanting, and not daring, to tell him something;
and as though foreseeing their present relations could not continue,
she seemed to be expecting something from him. Towards the
end of February it happened that Anna s baby daughter,
who had been named Anna too, fell ill. Alexey Alexandrovitch
was in the nursery in the morning, I1s of 1IsI
Anna Karenina and leaving orders for the doctor to be
sent for, he went to his office. On finishing his
Work, he returned home at four. Going into the hall
he saw a handsome groom, in a braided livery and
a bear fur cape, holding a white fur cloak. who
is here." asked Alexey Alexandrovitch. Princess Elizaveta Federovna Tverskaya, the
groom answered, and it seemed to Alexey Alexandrovitch that he
grinned. During all this difficult" time Alexey Alexandrovitch had noticed
that his worldly acquaintances, especially women, took a peculiar interest
in him and his wife. All these acquaintances he observed
with difficulty concealing their mirth at something; the same mirth
that he had perceived in the lawyer s eyes, and
just now in the eyes of this groom. Everyone seemed,
somehow, hugely delighted, as though they had just been at
a wedding. when they met him, with ill-disguised enjoyment they
inquired after his wife s health. The presence of Princess
Tverskaya was unpleasant to Alexey Alexandrovitch from the memories associated
with her, and also because he disliked her, and he
went straight to the nursery. "in the day nursery Seryozha,
leaning on the table with his legs on a chair,
was drawing and chatting away merrily. The English I16 of
IIsI Anna kzarenina governess, who had during Anna s illness
replaced the French one, was sitting near the boy knitting
a shawl. She hurriedly got up, curtseyed, and pulled Seryozha.
Alexey Alexandrovitch stroked his son s hair, answered the governess
s inquiries about his wife, and asked what the doctor
had said of the baby. The doctor said it was
nothing serious, and he ordered a bath, sir. But she
is still in pain, said Alexey Alexandrovitch, listening to the
baby s screaming in the next room. I think it
s the wet-nurse, sir, the Englishwoman said firmly, what makes
you think so? he asked, stopping short. It s just
as it was at Countess Paul s, sir. They gave
the baby medicine, and it turned out that the baby
was simply hungry: the nurse had no milk, sir. Alexey
Alexandrovitch pondered, and after standing still a few seconds he
went in at the other door. The baby was lying
with its head thrown back, stiffening itself in the nurse
s arms, and would not take the plump breast offered
it; and it never ceased screaming in spite of the
double hushing of the wet-nurse and the other nurse, who
was bending over her. Still no better? said Alexey Alexandrovitch.
I1I of 1IsI Anna kcarenina She s very restless, answered
the nurse in a whisper. Miss Edwarde says that perhaps
the wet-nurse has no milk, he said, "I think so
too, Alexey Alexandrovitch. Then why didn t you say so?
who s one to say it to? Anna Arkadyevna still
ill... said the nurse discontentedly. The nurse was an old
servant of the family. And in her simple words there
seemed to Alexey Alexandrovitch an allusion to his position.
