not even recognize him. He 61 of 1IsI Anna kiarenina
went towards the mounds, whence came the clank of the
chains of sledges as they slipped down or were dragged
up, the rumble of the sliding sledges, and the sounds
of merry voices. He walked on a few steps, and
the skating-ground lay open before his eyes, and at once,
amidst all the skaters, he knew her. He knew she
was there by the rapture and the terror that seized
on his heart. She was standing talking to a lady
at the opposite end of the ground. There was apparently
nothing striking either in her dress or her attitude. But
for Levin she was as easy to find in that
crowd as a rose among nettles. Everything was made bright
by her. She was the smile that shed light on
all round her. Is it possible "I can go over
there on the ice, go up to her? he thought.
The place where she stood seemed to him a holy
shrine, unapproachable, and there was one moment when he was
almost retreating, so overwhelmed was he with terror. He had
to make an effort to master himself, and to remind
himself that people of all sorts were moving about her,
and that he too might come there to skate. He
walked down, for a long while avoiding looking at her
as at the sun, but seeing her, as one does
the sun, without looking. On that day of the week
and at that time of day people of one set,
all acquainted with one another, used to meet 62 of
1IsI Anna Karenina eBook brought to you by on the
ice. There were crack skaters there, showing off their skill,
and learners clinging to chairs with timid, awkward movements, boys,
and elderly people skating with hygienic motives. They seemed to
Levin an elect band of blissful beings because they were
here, near her. All the skaters, it seemed, with perfect
self-possession, skated towards her, skated by her, even spoke to
her, and were happy, quite apart from her, enioying the
capital ice and the fine weather. Nikolay Shtcherbatsky, /<:itty s
cousin, in a short iacket and tight trousers, was sitting
on a garden seat with his skates on. Seeing Levin,
he shouted to him: Ah, the first skater in Russia!
Been here long? First- rate ice-do put your skates on.
"I haven t got my skates, Levin answered, marveling at
this boldness and ease in her presence, and not for
one second losing sight of her, though he did not
look at her. He felt as though the sun were
coming near him. She was in a corner, and turning
out her slender feet in their high boots with obvious
timidity, she skated towards him. A boy in Russian dress,
desperately waving his arms and bowed down to the ground,
overtook her. She skated a little uncertainly; taking her hands
out of the little muff that hung on a cord,
she held them ready for emergency, 63 of 1IsI Anna
Karenina and looking towards Levin, whom she had recognized, she
smiled at him, and at her own fears. when she
had got round the turn, she gave herself a push
off with one foot, and skated straight up to Shtcherbatsky.
Clutching at his arm, she nodded smiling to Levin.
