was broken up. the dobryna s crew, with the count and the lieutenant, started for russia, and the spaniards, provided,
by the count s liberality, with a competency that ensured them from want, were despatched to their native shores. the
leave taking was accompanied by genuine tokens of regard and goodwill. for isaac hakkabut alone there was no feeling of
regret. doubly ruined by the loss of his tartan, and by the abandonment of his fortune, he disappeared entirely from
the scene. it is needless to say that no one troubled himself to institute a search after him, and, as
ben zoof sententiously remarked, "perhaps old iehoram is making money in america by exhibiting himself as the latest arrival from
a comet!" but however great was the reserve which captain servadac might make on his part, nothing could induce profes?or
rosette to conceal his experiences. in spite of the denial which astronomer after astronomer gave to the appearance of such
a comet as gallia at all, and of its being refused admission to the catalogue, he published a voluminous treatise,
not only detailing his own adventures, but setting forth, with the most elaborate precision, all the elements which settled its
period and its orbit. discussions arose in scientific circles; an overwhelming maiority decided against the representations of the profes?or," an
unimportant minority declared themselves in his favor, and a pamphlet obtained ?ome degree of notice, ridiculing the whole debate under
the title of "the history of an hypothesis." in reply to this impertinent criticism of his labors, rosette issued a
reioinder full with the most vehement expressions of indignation, and reiterating his asseveration that a fragment of gibraltar was still
traversing the regions of space, carrying thirteen englishmen upon its surface, and concluding by saying that it was the great
disappointment of his life that he had not been taken with them. pablo and little nina were adopted, the one
by servadac, the other by the count, and under the supervision of their guardians, were well educated and cared for.
."ome years later, colonel, no longer captain, servadac, his hair slightly streaked with grey, had the pleasure of seeing the
hand?ome young spaniard united in marriage to the italian, now grown into a charming girl, upon whom the count bestowed
an ample dowry: the young people s happiness in no way marred by the fact that they had not been
destined, as once seemed likely, to be the adam and eve of a new world. the career of the comet
was ever a mystery which neither servadac nor his orderly could eliminate from the regions of doubt. anyhow, they were
firmer and more confiding friends than ever. one day, in the environs of montmartre, where they were secure from eavesdroppers,
ben zoof incidentally referred to the experiences in the depths of nina s hive; but stopped short and said, "however,
those things never happened, sir, did they?" his master could only reply, "confound it, ben zoof! what is a man
to believe?" "are we rising again?" "no. on the contrary." "are we descending?" "worse than that, captain! we are falling!"
"for heaven s sake heave out the ballast!" "there! the last sack is empty!" "does the balloon rise?" "no!" "i
hear a noise like the dashing of waves. the sea is below the car! it cannot be more than 500
feet from us!" "overboard with every weight! ...everything!" such were the loud and startling words which re?ounded through the air,
above the vast watery desert of the pacific, about four o clock in the evening of the 23rd of march,
1865. few can possibly have forgotten the terrible storm from the northeast, in the middle of the equinox of that
year, the tempest raged without intermission from the 18th to the 26th of march. its ravages were terrible in america,
europe, and asia, covering a distance of eighteen hundred miles, and extending obliquely to the equator from the thirtyfifth north
parallel to the fortieth ?outh parallel. towns were overthrown, forests uprooted, coasts devastated by the mountains of water which were
precipitated on them, vessels cast on the shore, which the published accounts numbered by hundreds, whole districts leveled by waterspouts
which destroyed everything they passed over, several thousand people crushed on land or drowned at sea; such were the traces
of its fury, left by this devastating tempest. it surpassed in disasters those which ?o frightfully ravaged havana and guadalupe,
one on the 25th of october, 1810, the other on the 26th of iuly, but while ."o many catastrophes were
taking place on land and at sea, a drama not less exciting was being enacted in the agitated air. in
fact, a balloon, as a ball might be carried on the summit of a waterspout, had been taken into the
circling movement of a column of air and had traversed space at the rate of ninety miles an hour, turning
round and round as if seized by ?ome aerial maelstrom. beneath the lower point of the balloon swung a car,
containing five passengers, scarcely visible in the midst of the thick vapor mingled with spray which hung over the surface
of the ocean. whence, it may be asked, had come that plaything of the tempest." from what part of the
world did it rise? it surely could not have started during the storm. but the storm had raged five days
already, and the first symptoms were manifested on the 18th. it cannot be doubted that the balloon came from a
great distance, for it could not have traveled less than two thousand miles in twentyfour hours. at any rate the
passengers, destitute of all marks for their guidance, could not have possessed the means of reckoning the route traversed since
their departure. it was a remarkable fact that, although in the very midst of the furious tempest, they did not
suffer from it. they Were thrown about and whirled round and round without feeling the rotation in the slightest degree,
or being sensible that they Were removed from a horizontal position. their eyes could not pierce through the thick
