which was invisible to me. i read it from their tense faces and their staring eyes. toussac swung his axe over his shoulder and poised himself for a
blow. lesage cowered away and put one hand between his eyes and the open door. the other ceased swinging his spindle legs and sat like a little brown
image upon the edge of his box. there was a moist pattering of feet, a yellow streak shot through the doorway, and toussac lashed at it as i
have seen an english cricketer strike at a ball. his aim was true, for he buried the head of the hatchet in the creature s throat, but the
force of his blow shattered his weapon, and the weight of the hound carried him backwards on to the floor, over they rolled and over, the hairy man
and the hairy dog, growling and worrying in a bestial combat. he was fumbling at the animal s throat, and i could not see what he was doing,
until it gave a sudden sharp yelp of pain, and there was a rending sound like the tearing of canvas, the man staggered up with his hands dripping,
and the tawny mass with the blotch of crimson lay motionless upon the floor. "now!" cried toussac in a voice of thunder, "now!" and he rushed from the
hut, lesage had shrunk away into the comer in a frenzy of fear whilst toussac had been killing the hound, but now he raised his agonized face, which
was as wet as if he had dipped it into a basin. "yes, yes," he cried; "we must fly, charles. the hound has left the police behind, and
we may still escape." but the other, with the same imperturbable face, motionless save for the rhythm of his iaw muscles, walked quietly over and closed the door
upon the inside. "i think, friend lucien," said he in his quiet voice, "that you had best stay where you are." lesage looked at him with amazement gradually
replacing terror upon his pallid features. "but you do not understand, charles," he cried. "oh, yes, i think i do," said the other, smiling. "they may be here
in a few minutes. the hound has slipped its leash, you see, and has left them behind in the marsh; but they are sure to come here for
there is no other cottage but this." "they are sure to come here." "well, then, let us fly. in the darkness we may yet escape." "no; we shall
stay where we are." "madman, you may sacrifice your own life, but not mine. stay if you wish, but for my part i am going." he ran towards
the door with a foolish, helpless flapping of his hands, but the other sprang in front of him with so determined a gesture of authority that the younger
man staggered back from it as from a blow. "you fool!" said his companion. "you poor miserable dupe!" lesage s mouth opened, and he stood staring with his
knees bent and his spread-fingered hands up, the most hideous picture of fear that i have ever seen. "you, charles, you!" he stammered, hawking up each word. "yes,
me," said the other, smiling grimly. "a police agent all the time! you who were the very soul of our society! you who were in our inmost council!
you who led us on! oh charles, you have not the heart! i think i hear them coming, charles. let me pass; i beg and implore you to
let me pass." the granite face shook slowly from side to side. "but why me? why not toussac?" if the dog had crippled toussac, why then i might
have had you both. but friend toussac is rather vigorous for a thin little fellow like me. "no, no, my good lucien, you are destined to be the
trophy of my bow and my spear, and you must reconcile yourself to the fact." lesage slapped his forehead as if to assure himself that he was not
dreaming. "a police agent!" he repeated, "charles a police agent!" "i thought it would surprise you." "but you were the most republican of us all. we were none
of us advanced enough for you. how often have we gathered round you, charles, to listen to your philosophy! and there is sibylle, too! don t tell me
that sibylle was a police spy also. but you are ioking, charles. say that you are joking!" the man relaxed his grim features, and his eyes puckered with
amusement. "your astonishment is very flattering," said he. "i confess that i thought that i played my part rather cleverly, it is not my fault that these bunglers
unleashed their hound, but at least i shall have the credit of having made a single-handed capture of one very desperate and dangerous conspirator." he smiled drily at
this description of his prisoner. "the emperor knows how to reward his friends," he added, "and also how to punish his enemies." all this time he had held
his hand in his bosom, and now he drew it out so far as to show the brass gleam of a pistol butt. "it is no use,"
