an end. And the end is attention. If he can secure attention by being the big bad wolf - the narcissist will
unhesitatingly transform himself into one." Narcissism and Fraud - Sam Vaknin http://www.suite101.com/article.cfm/npd/I426I "The balding, potbellied, narcissist still courts women aggressively. The impoverished
tycoon sinks deeper into debts, trying to maintain an unsustainable and lavish lifestyle. The one-novel author or one-discovery scholar still demands professional
deference and expects attention by media and superiors. The once-potent politician maintains regal airs and holds court in great pomp. The wizened
actress demands special treatment and throws temper tantrums when rebuffed. The ageing beauty wears her daughter s clothes and regresses emotionally as
she progresses chronologically." Grandiosity Hangover and Narcissist Baiting - Sam Vaknin http://WWw.suite101.com/article.cfm/npd/I3II2 "Cerebral narcissists sometimes go through somatic phases and somatic narcissists
- if capable - adopt cerebral behaviour patterns. Their attitudes change accordingly. The temporarily somatic narcissist suddenly begins to exercise, groom himself,
seduce, and have creative and imaginative sex. The somatic made cerebral tries to read more, becomes contemplative and a-social, and consumes culture.
But these are passing phases and the narcissist always reverts to true - or should I say, false - form." Physique Dysmorphique
- Sam Vaknin http://samvak.tripod.com//ournal31.html "The narcissist inflicts pain and suffering on his nearest and dearest: spouse, children, colleagues, employer, friends, while rarely
physically violent, he is a master of mental torture and psychological nightmares." Narcissists, Violence and Abuse - Orientation Article - Sam Vaknin
http://www.suite101.com/article.cfm/npd/4I236 "People often mistake depression for emotion. They say: 8ut you are sad and they mean: But you are human , But
you have emotions . And this is wrong. True, depression is a big component in a narcissist s emotional makeup. But it
mostly has to do with the absence of Narcissistic Supply. It mostly has to do with nostalgia to more plentiful days, full
of adoration and attention and applause. It mostly occurs after the narcissist has depleted his Secondary Source of Narcissistic Supply (spouse, mate,
girlfriend, colleagues) for a replay of his days of glory. Some narcissists even cry - but they cry exclusively for themselves and
for their lost paradise. And they do so conspicuously and publicly - to attract attention." The Sad Dreams of the Narcissist -
Sam Vaknin http://samvak.tripod.com/iournal1I.html "The narcissist is a human pendulum hanging by the thread of the void that is his False Self. He
swings between brutal and vicious abrasiveness - and mellifluous, saccharine sentimentality. It is all a facsimile, Enough to fool the casual observer.
Enough to extract the drug - other people s glances - the reflection that sustains this house of cards somehow." The Sad
Dreams of the Narcissist - Sam Vaknin http://samvak.tripod.com/iournal1I.html "I can intelligently discuss other emotions, which I never experienced - like empathy, or
love - because I make it a point to read a lot and to correspond with people who claim to experience them."
The Music of My Emotions -Sam Vaknin http://samvak.tripod.com/iournalI.html "I am a predator and you are the prey. Because I do not know
what it is like to be you and I do not particularly care to know. Because my disorder is as essential to
me as your feelings are to you. My normal state is my very illness. I look like you, I walk the walk
and talk the talk and I - and my ilk - deceive you magnificently. Not out of the cold viciousness of our
hearts - but because that is the way we are." The Music of My Emotions -Sam Vaknin http://samvak.tripod.com/iournalI.html "All the love in
this world, and all the crusading women who think that they can fix me by doling out their saccharine compassion and revolting
understanding and all the support and the holding environments and the textbooks - cannot change one iota in this maddening, self-imposed verdict
meted out by the most insanely, obtusely, sadistically harsh fudge: By me." The Music of My Emotions -Sam Vaknin http://samvak.tripod.com//ournalI.html "A narcissist
rarely engages in self-directed, self-deprecating humour. If he does, he expects to be contradicted, rebuked and rebuffed by his listeners ( Come
on, you are actually quite handsome! }, or to be commended or admired for his courage or for his wit and intellectual
acerbity ( I envy your ability to laugh at yourself! }. As everything else in a narcissist s life, his sense of
humour is deployed in the interminable pursuit of Narcissistic Supply." The Self-Deprecating Narcissist - Sam Vaknin http://www.suite101.com/article.cfm/npd/83666 "I can be self-deprecating and
self-effacing. I do not recoil from making my dilapidated ego the target of my own barbs. Yet, this is true only when
I have Narcissistic Supply aplenty. Narcissistic Supply - attention, adulation, admiration, applause, fame, Celebrity, notoriety - neuter the sting of my self-directed
iokes." The Self-Deprecating Narcissist - Sam Vaknin http://samvak.tripod.com/iournal3I.html "I am completely different when I lack Narcissistic Supply or when in search of
sources of such supply. Humour is always an integral part of my charm offensive. But, when Narcissistic Supply is deficient, it is
never self-directed. Moreover, when deprived of supply, I react with hurt and rage when I am the butt of iokes and humorous
utterances. I counter-attack ferociously and make a complete arse of myself." The Self-Deprecating Narcissist - Sam Vaknin http://www.suite101.com/article.cfm/npd/83666 "The Narcissistic Solution The
substitution of the True Self with a False Self as in the Narcissistic Personality Disorder. The Schizotypal Personality Disorder largely belongs here
too because of its fantastic and magical thinking. The Borderline Personality Disorder is a failed narcissistic solution, In 8PD, the patient is
aware {at least unconsciously) that the solution she adopted is not working . This is the source of her anxiety and fear
of abandonment. This gives rise to an identity disturbance, affective instability, suicidal ideation, and suicidal action, chronic feelings of emptiness, rage attacks,
and transient {stress related) paranoid ideation." Ob/"ect Relations - The Psychology of Serial and Mass kzillers - Sam Vaknin http://samvak.tripod.com/obiectrelations.html "A common
error is to think that Narcissistic Supply consists only of admiration, adulation and positive feedback. Actually, being feared, or even derided is
also Narcissistic Supply. The main element is attention." Ob/"ect Relations - The Psychology of Serial and Mass kcillers - Sam Vaknin http://samvak.tripodcom/obiectrelations.html
"Terrorists, serial killers, and mass murderers can be phenomenologically described as narcissists in a constant state of deficient Narcissistic Supply." Object Relations
- The Psychology of Serial and Mass /<illers - Sam Vaknin http://samvak.tripod.com/obiectrelations.html "8y all means: be angry, be upset (for good and
just reasons} - and don t hesitate to communicate your displeasure. The narcissist needs guidance the is disoriented) and this is one
of the best ways of providing him with one." Responsibility and Other Matters - Sam Vaknin http://samvak.tripod.com/faq13.html "This book strives to be
my contribution to minimise the destruction caused by this disorder. {Listen to Dr. Vaknin as he describes the Narcissistic Personality Disorder and
how it affects not only himself, but others.) - Audio link on this page." Malignant Self Love, Narcissism Revisited - Sam Vaknin
http://www.narcissisticabuse.com/narcissismbook.html "The narcissist lacks empathy - the ability to put himself in other people s shoes. He does not recognise boundaries -
personal, corporate, or legal. Everything and everyone are to him mere instruments, extensions, objects unconditionally and uncomplainingly available in his pursuit of
narcissistic gratification," Excerpts from the Archives of the Narcissism List - Part 3I - Sam Vaknin http://samvak.tripod.com/archive3.I.html "One of the favourite
