a disguise (a battered lab coat lying nearby), rubbed his hands in glee and pushed the door open, ready for
whatever lay outside. the first thing he noticed were the sirens: those endless, blazing, deafening sirens, his hands instinctively flew
to his ears and his eyes inexplicably screwed themselves up to protect themselves from the uproar outside. his will triumphed,
though, and he forced his eyelids open so that he could get a view of his surroundings and decide where
to go next. he had walked out into a busy corridor. men in white coats ran up and down in
urgency and panic. luckily, though, they were too engrossed in their emergency to notice the man who had walked out
of the cupboard; moreover, they were all covering their ears too, so thomas did not look out of place. he
decided to join the crowd and rush off in whatever direction they were all going. they were going left, and
so he started to run left, too. his running companions were shouting and spluttering to each ohure, yet thomas could
not catch a whole sentence: mere solitary words such as "rush", "cortical" and "breach" reached his ears from the mouths
of his new colleagues. be supposed it was important to work out what was happening to panic all these scientists,
but he would ask later. for the moment, the panic was a perfect cover for his movements. there was an
open door to the right. he rushed in as if he were an official and slammed the door shut. nobody
questioned him, and nor did he expect them to, for he knew that if you act confidently like you re
supposed to be somewhere, you normally don t get challenged. he found himself in what looked like an empty classroom.
a blackboard lay to his right with some incomprehensible half~finished equations scrawled on it. to his left were wooden desks
and chairs. the whole scene was reminiscent of a classroom from the 1950s (there was even a cane leaning against
the crook) and it clashed oddly with the rest of the interior he had seen so far. it certainly didn
t go well with the future-according-to-the-eighties theme which seemed to be going on in the corridor. right before him, between
the desks and the blackboard, was a large table. while there was nothing on top of it, thomas could spy
drawers underneath which may have contained something useful. he therefore went straight over to them and began snooping. normally he
would have been discreet, but given the general atmosphere of panic he figured that it wouldn t look out of
place for an employee of this establishment to be ruffling through papers in an urgent manner as if searching for
an important document. and with his old lab coat on, he was confident that a quick glance through the door
s window from someone outside would not raise any suspicions. in truth, though, he did not know what he was
looking for. the first two drawers contained mere stationery: rubbers, pencils and the like. it was only when he opened
the third drawer that he found any papers. most of them were to do with accounts. he found papers with
the words overhead and tax deductible and ohure such incomprehensible phrases written on them. they meant nothing to him, but
given that tgn had not told him what to look for, he scanned them anyway in case the man watching
the footage from his camera contact lenses took an interest and wanted to see more. he began to wonder what
precisely tgn did want from him, gregory and kathy. they had dropped them off in the centre of the enemy
s building without being caught... surely they could then have dropped off one of their own agents, with experience and
training? it made thomas wonder whether tgn was actually working with cybertech, or whether they even had any intention of
getting the three of them out alive... such thinking was not conducive to the situation, however. he had to think
positive. as he saw it, if tgn were double crossers, he was done for already- whatever he did. if they
were not, his best chance of escape lay in doing whatever they wanted and Waiting for them to rescue him.
then, hopefully, they would have the information they needed and let the three of them go free- with the answers
they had come to seek, of course. presently he opened the fourth drawer and found two documents of great interest
to him. the first item was a discarded blueprint for a machine. the head of the document was labelled "cortical
manipulation matrix mark iii". there was a date on the bottom right hand crook: 20th july, 2006, this was old,
then. nevertheless, despite the fact that the formulae and designs went right over thomas head, he reasoned that tgn might
be interested in this and took a good, long look at it for them. the second item was an old
copy of science today, its pages battered and torn as if someone had screwed it up in great frustration. he
recognised it immediately as the magazine vera pidgeonsworth had been reading on the day before his abduction by tgn. it
felt so long ago now, but the memory came back to him as clear as a summer s stream of
her wondrous expression and her insistence that she could see something in his eyes. his desire to have her explain
herself had been thwarted by the arrival of her headmaster. yet here was his opportunity to read what she had
been reading and perhaps discover the answer to his long-held curiosity. the front cover pointed his attention to an article
entitled "cortical confusion: are you who you think you are?", which could be found on page 12. he hurriedly flicked
through the pages until he found it and began reading voraciously. the article explained in simple language the theoretical discoveries
of a doctor earnest jones. it discussed the possibility of creating machines which could use his discoveries to transfer
