i shall answer. i had no joy in the harem. i gave no child to my lord, though often i put my tongue to the sacred pillar of
porphyry in the mosque of amrar. my lord s love went from me. i was placed beneath another in the harem. . . . was it well? did
i not love my lord? was the sin mine that no child was born to him? it is written that a woman s prayers are of no avail,
that her lord must save her at the last, if she hath a soul to be saved. . . . was the love of my lord mine?" she
paused, caught a corner of her robe and covered her face. "speak on, o woman of many sorrows," said dicky. she partly uncovered her face, and spoke again:
"in the long night, when he came not and i was lonely and i cried aloud, and only the jackals beyond my window answered, i thought and thought.
my brain was wild, and at last i said: behold, i will go to mecca as the men go, and when the fire rises from the prophet s
tomb, bringing blessing and life to all, it may be that i shall have peace, and win heaven as men win it. for behold! what is my body
but a man s body, for it beareth no child. and what is my soul but a man s soul, that dares to do this thing! . .
." "thou art a blasphemer," broke in the chief of the ulema. she gave no heed, but with her eyes on dicky continued: "so i stole forth in
the night with an old slave, who was my father s slave, and together we went to cairo. . . . behold, i have done all that dervishes
do: i have cut myself with knives, i have walked the desert alone, i have lain beneath the feet of the sheikh s horse when he makes his
ride over the bodies of the faithful, i have done all that a woman may do and all that a man may do, for the love i bore
my lord. now judge me as ye will, for i may do no more." when she had finished, dicky turned to the sheikhel-beled and said: "she is mad.
behold, allah hath taken her wits! she is no more than a wild bird in the wilderness." it was his one way to save her; for among her
people the mad, the blind, and the idiot are reputed highly favoured of god. the sheikh-el-beled shook his head. "she is a blasphemer. her words are as the
words of one who holds the sacred sword and speaks from the high pulpit," he said sternly; and his dry lean face hungered like a wolf s for
the blood of the woman. "she has blasphemed," said the ulema. outside the house, quietness had given place to murmuring, murmuring to a noise, and a noise to
a tumult, through which the Yblping and howling of the village dogs streamed. "she shall be torn to pieces by wild dogs," said the sheikh-el-beled, "let her choose
her own death," said dicky softly; and, lighting a cigarette, he puffed it indolently into the face of the arab sitting beside him. for dicky had many ways
of showing hatred, and his tobacco was strong. the sea has its victims, so had dicky s tobacco. "the way of her death shall be as we choose,"
said the sheikh-el-beled, his face growing blacker, his eyes enlarging in fury. dicky yawned slightly, his eyes half closed. he drew in a long breath of excoriating caporal,
held it for a moment, and then softly ejected it in a cloud which brought water to the eyes of the sheikh-el-beled. dicky was very angry, but he
did not look it. his voice was meditative, almost languid as he said: "that the woman should die seems just and right -- if by your kindness and
the mercy of god ye will let me speak. but this is no court, it is no law: it is mere justice ye would do." "it is the
will of the people," the chief of the ulema interjected. "it is the will of mussulmans, of our religion, of mahomet," he said. "true, o beloved of heaven,
who shall live for ever," said dicky, his lips lost in an odorous cloud of ordinaire. "but there be evil tongues and evil hearts; and if some son
of liars, some brother of foolish tales, should bear false witness upon this thing before our master the khedive, or his gentle mouffetish -- " "his gentle mouffetish"
was scarcely the name to apply to sadik pasha, the terrible right-hand of the khedive. but dicky s tongue was in his cheek. "there is the mudir," said
the sheikh-el-beled: "he hath said that the woman should die, if she were found." "true; but if the mudir should die, where would be his testimony?" asked dicky,
and his eyes half closed, as though in idle contemplation of a pleasing theme. "now," he added, still more negligently, "i shall see our master the khedive
