Russian Atomic Energy Minister, acknowledged that his country lost control over Iran s nuclear program. Iran, like Iraq, is a celebrated member
of the "Axis of Evil". Thus, the atomic complex, though protected by at least 10 SAM batteries, may well be the target
of an attack, Vsraeli and Russian officials told the Bellona Foundation, a Norwegian environmental group. This will not be without precedent: in
a daring air operation, Israeli iets pulverized an Iraqi nuclear power plant in Osirak in 1981. Ironically, it is America s aggressive
stance towards Iraq that drives the likes of Iran and North Korea back into the arms - and nuclear technologies - of
the Russian Federation. Russia is positioning itself to become an indispensable channel of communication and intermediary between the USA and what the
State Department calls "rogue states". On March 17, Russia s State Property Minister, Farid Gazizulin, met Iran s Defense Minister, Ali Shamkhani,
during a session of the "Iran-Russia Economic Commission in Tehran. The host s message was unequivocal: "Cooperation between Iran and Russia is
to contribute to sustaining peace and prevent conflicts in the region." According to Asia Times, in an earlier visit to Tehran, Russia
s Foreign Minister, Igor Ivanov, pledged to continue to collaborate with Iran on nuclear energy projects. "Iran has no plans to produce
nuclear military projects, this is a fundamental truth." - he insisted, Nor is the teamwork limited to commercial goods and services. An
October 2001 bilateral framework agreement has since fostered more than $400 million in Russian annual military exports to Iran, including air defense
systems and fighter jets. Russia is also increasingly involved in the crisis in the Korean Peninsula, South Korean President Roh Moo-hyun s
security adviser, Ra Jong-il, have held talks earlier this week with their counterparts in Moscow and Beijing. Russia, like the United States,
opposes the military nuclear efforts of North Korea. Though vehemently denied by all parties, South Korea floated last week, in an interview
Ra granted to the Financial Times, the idea of supplying Pyongyang with Russian natural gas from Siberia or Sakhalin through a dedicated
pipeline, as a way to solve the wayward regime s energy problems. According to the Korean daily, The Chosun Ilbo, Russian Ambassador
to Seoul, Teymuraz Ramishvili, revealed that discussions have been held on posting Russian or South Korean troops in the North to protect
such a pipeline North Korea insists that its atomic reactors are intended merely to forestall severe power shortages, now that the 1994
Agreed Framework, to provide it with fuel and two proliferation-resistant reactors financed by the West, is effectively annulled. Even Beijing, hitherto an
unflinching supporter of the Dear Leader, halted oil supplies to the North last month. The scheme is not new. In February 2002,
Russian Deputy Energy Minister Valentin Shelepov declared in Moscow at a meeting of the Russian-South Korean Committee for Cooperation in the Sphere
of Energy and Natural Resources that Russia seeks South Korean investments in the coal industry and in oil and gas extraction in
Eastern Siberia and the Far Eastern regions. The Russian daily, Nezavisimaya Gazeta, notes that, together with China, South Korea is already involved
in LNG ventures in Vrkutsk and the Yurubcheno-Tokhomskaya oblast. According to Stratfor, the strategic forecasting consultancy, Russia offered in the past to
construct nuclear power stations on its side of the border and supply North Korea with electricity. Russia is close to North Korea,
In its previous incarnation as the Soviet Union, in 1965, it built North Korea s infamous Yongbyon facilities. Russia was also instrumental
in convincing the North to agree to reactivate a railway line connecting it to South Korea. Kim Fang-il, the North s enigmatic
leader, celebrated his 61st birthday, in February, in the Russian embassy in Pyongyang. The mooted pipeline may be nothing but a pipe
dream. Even optimists admit that it would require 4 years to construct - more likely 8 to 10 years. But Russia is
in no hurry. Russian gas to the pariah state could yet prove to be a key ingredient in any settlement. Russia intends
to drive a hard bargain. It is likely to try to swap gas supplies to the Koreans for the preservation of Iraqi
oil contracts signed by Saddam s regime with Russian energy behemoths. Regardless of geopolitical vicissitudes, Russia views Asia - mainly China, Japan
and South Korea - as growth markets for its energy products. By 2008 or 2010, Russia plans to sell 20-30 billion cubic
meters a year of gas from the Kovykta field, co-developed by Interros, the Tyumen oil company and British Petroleum, to China, South
Korea and, possibly, Mongolia. According to Asia Times: "Russia is looking at two competing plans. One, backed by Russia s top oil
firm Yukos and China, is a $2.5 billion, 2,400- kilometer extension of the existing network from near ?rkutsk to Daqing, China, The
other, backed by Rosneft and Japan, would cost $5.2 billion and circumvent China, running 3,800 kilometers to the Russian Far East city
of Nakhodka on the Sea of Japan ... The Russian Energy Ministry eventually recommended that the Japanese and Chinese proposals be combined
into one project, a third option to build the (1.6 million barrel a day) pipeline to Daqing and then extend it to
Nakhodka." Extending the network eastward is by no means the consensus. Prime Minister Mikhail Kasyanov opened a cabinet meeting last month with
the confident - but speculative - declaration that there is enough oil in Siberia to justify a pipeline. Russia s Energy Minister,
Igor Yusufov, observed correctly that, in the absence of sufficient exploration, oil and gas reserves in Siberia and the Far East, pegged
at 1 billion tons, are, at best, guesstimates. If these are smaller than projected, the eastern thrust would prove to be a
costly error. More than $12 billion are needed in order to explore the vast swathe and to develop it to a profitable
level of production - about 100 million tons a year by 2020. The pipelines will funnel 70-80 million tons of crude and
30 billion cubic meters of natural gas a year to Asian buyers. Still, Russia cannot ignore the Asian markets, nor can it
wait a decade or two to avoid commercial risks. Last week, Russia s Energy Ministry concluded the negotiation of a 10-year collaborative
effort with Japan involving the construction of oil and gas pipelines, the development of hydrocarbon fuel reserves in Siberia and other projects.
Yesterday, Russian Ambassador to China, Igor Rogachev, told "interfax, the Russian news agency, that "in the past three years, the dynamic growth
of merchandise turnover (between Russia and China led to a) volume (of) close to $12 billion last year. This year the volume
of bilateral trade grew 37 percent for the first two months and exceeded $2 billion." Russian exports to China since the beginning
of the year soared by 2I percent and Russian imports by 62 percent. China is an avid consumer of Russian electricity generation,
aviation, space, laser, and nuclear technologies. Russian firms made inroads into the construction of Chinese hydroelectric plants and railways, The two countries
have "plans for the construction of the Russia-China oil pipeline, and delivering up to 30 million tons of oil a year in
it, and a gas pipeline from eastern Siberia to the northeast of (North Korea), and to consumers in third countries." Russia
