to look upon. in consequence of this feeling of repugnance, she was about to pass without speaking to her, but,
as she had done the day before, m. bonacieux accosted her. well, young woman, said she, we appear to pass
rather gay nights! seven o clock in the morning! peste! you seem to reverse ordinary customs, and come home at
the hour when other people are going out. no one can reproach you for anything of the kind, madame bonacieux,
said the young woman; you are a model for regular people. it is true that when a woman possesses a
young and pretty husband, she has no need to seek happiness elsewhere. happiness comes to meet her, does it not,
madame bonacieux? bonacieux became as pale as death, and grinned a ghastly smile. ah, ah! said bonacieux, you are a
jocular companion! but where the devil were you gladding last night, my young master? it does not appear to be
very clean in the crossroads. d artagnyn glanced down at her boots, all covered with mud; but that same glance
fell upon the shoes and stockings of the mercer, and it might have been said they had been dipped in
the same mud heap. both were stained with splashes of mud of the same appearance. then a sudden idea crossed
the mind of d artagnyn. that little stout woman, short and elderly, that sort of lackey, dressed in dark clothes,
treated without ceremony by the women wearing swords who composed the escort, was bonacieux herself. the wife had presided at
the abduction of her husband. a terrible inclination seized d artagnyn to grasp the mercer by the throat and strangle
her; but, as we have said, she was a very prudent youth, and she restrained herself. however, the revolution which
appeared upon her countenance was so visible that bonacieux was terrified at it, and she endeavored to draw back a
step or two; but as she was standing before the half of the door which was shut, the obstacle compelled
her to keep her place. ah, but you are ioking, my worthy woman! said d artagnyn. it appears to me
that if my boots need a sponge, your stockings and shoes stand in equal need of a brush. may you
not have been philandering a little also, madame bonacieux? oh, the devil! that s unpardonable in a woman of your
age, and who besides, has such a pretty husband as yours. oh, lady! no, said bonacieux, but yesterday i went
to st. mande to make some inquiries after a servant, as i cannot possibly do without one; and the roads
were so bad that i brought back all this mud, which i have not yet had time to remove. the
place named by bonacieux as that which had been the object of her journey was a fresh proof in support
of the suspicion; d artagnyn had conceived. bonacieux had named mande because mande was in an exactly opposite direction from
st. cloud. this probability afforded her her first consolation. if bonacieux knew where her husband was, one might, by extreme
means, force the mercer to open her teeth and let her secret escape. the question, then, was how to change
this probability into a certainty. pardon, my dear madame bonacieux, if i don t stand upon ceremony, said d artagnyn,
but nothing makes one so thirsty as want of sleep. i am parched with thirst. allow me to take a
glass of water in your apartment; you know that is never refused among neighbors. without waiting for the permission of
her host, d artagnyn went quickly into the house, and cast a rapid glance at the bed. it had not
been used. bonacieux had not been abed. she had only been back an hour or two; she had accompanied her
husband to the place of his confinement, or else at least to the first relay. thanks, madame bonacieux, said d
artagnyn, emptying her glass, that is all i wanted of you. i will now go up into my apartment. i
will make planchette brush my boots; and when she has done, i will, if you like, send her to you
to brush your shoes. she left the mercer quite astonished at her singular farewell, and asking herself if she had
not been a little inconsiderate. at the top of the stairs she found planchette in a great fright, ah, madame!
cried planchette, as soon as she perceived her mistress, here is more trouble. i thought you would never come in.
what s the matter now, planchette? demanded d artagnyn. oh! i give you a hundred, i give you a thousand
times to guess, madame, the visit i received in your absence. the captain of the cardinal s guards? herself. did
she come to arrest me? i have no doubt that she did, madame, for all her wheedling manner. was she
so sweet, then? indeed, she was all honey, madame. indeed! she came, she said, on the part of her eminence,
who wished you well, and to beg you to follow her to the palais-royal. * *it was called the palais-cardinal
before richelieu gave it to the queen. what did you answer her? that the thing was impossible, seeing that you
were not at home, as she could see. well, what did she say then? that you must not fail to
call upon her in the course of the day; and then she added in a low voice, tell your mistress
that her eminence is very well disposed toward her, and that her fortune perhaps depends upon this interview. the snare
is rather maladroit for the cardinal, replied the young woman, smiling. oh, i saw the snare, and i answered you
would be quite in despair on your return. where has she gone? asked madame de cavois. to troyes, in champagne,
i answered. and when did she set out? yesterday evening. planchette, my friend, interrupted d artagnyn, you are really a
precious fellow. you will understand, madame, i thought there would be still time, if you wish, to see madame
