m still me, i don t mind. and, surprisingly, she found that she did not mind. she did not in
the least resent his violation of her most secret thoughts now that it was an accomplished fact, though she knew
that she would have shrunk from the prospect had she fully understood his intentions the previous night, subsequently she wondered
more than once whether he had not seen the likelihood of resentment and taken means to prevent it. for the
present her delight at the annihilation of the language obstacle easily swept away other considerations. she demanded to know more
of the machines, of life on mars, of himself and his people. the questions poured out in a string, making
him smile. you are so eager, he said, as if in apology. so anxious to learn. we must have been
like that once long ago. long ago? i meant when our race was young. we are old now: our planet
is old: we are born old compared with the oldest of you. had you come just a few centuries later,
you might have found no men." our long history would have ended. you ask of life on mars. i scarcely
know how to answer you for life, to you, is a thing of promise, whereas for us but i shall
show you. this city you are in was called is called hanno. it is the biggest of the seven cities
which are still inhabited, yet there are no more than three thousand men and women in it now. fewer and
fewer children are born to us. perhaps that is well. each generation only prolongs our decay. we have had a
glorious past but a glorious past is bitterness for a child with a hopeless future. for you who think of
life as striving, it will be difficult to understand. but can you do nothing? /"oan asked. you must know so
much. can t you find out why less children are born, and cure it? we could, perhaps, but is it
worth it? would you wish to bear a child for a life of imprisonment able to live only in our
artificial conditions such as this? we have tried all we can. We have even created monsters; scarcely human creatures which
were able to live in the thin air. but it needs more than mere physical strength to survive on a
planet such as this where nothing useful as food can grow. our monsters were too unintelligent to survive we ourselves,
too, unadapted physically. life as you see it means very little to us now. quite soon we shall be gone
and there will be only the machines. the machines." ioan repeated. what are the machines? they are the puzzle which
brought me here. she told him of the machine which had somehow reached earth. i felt nervous of it, she
owned, and i felt nervous of your machines last night. i think that is the first reaction of all of
us to our own machines. some never get beyond it, others get used to it, but when we think of
machines we feel that in spite of all they have given us and all they do for us there is
something malignant about them. their very presence forces us down ways we do not want to go. we have felt
that since we first had them." there have been books, plays, pictures with the malevolence of the machine for their
theme. the idea persists of the eventual conquest of man by the machine. you don t seem to see them
like that. we don t. but i told you that our minds work differently in many ways, our first, simple
machines were designed to help us over difficulties, and they were successful. but so were ours, weren t they? well,
were they? i learned quite a lot of your history when i looked into your mind last night, and it
seemed to me that they Were not. machines have come early into your race history. they were not necessary. they
were thrust suddenly upon a race with no great problems, a race, moreover, so primitive that it was still is
still full of superstition. we did not invent the machine until it was necessary for our survival. you invented the
machine and caused it to be necessary for your survival. it saved us, but you thrust it upon a world
not yet ready it, and you have failed to adapt to it. but we have changed. we ve changed enormously.
our whole outlook is utterly different from that of our great grandfathers and even of our grandfathers. we recognize that
in the modern world one must move with the times. you have changed, perhaps, but very little and that under
continual protest. in you, and i take it that you are typical of your race, the sentimental resistance to change
is immense. he paused, looking at her with a slight frown. on mars, he continued, man has been the most
adaptable of all the animal creations. and on earth, she put in. i wonder? it seems to me that your
race may be in grave danger almost as if you may be losing the power to adapt. man s rise
and his survival depend on his adaptability. it Was because the old masters of the world Could not adapt that
they lost their mastery. new conditions defeated them. you have created new conditions, but you have scarcely disturbed your ways
of living to suit them. it is little wonder to me that you fear the machine. even while you use
it you try to live the lives of craftsmen. you resent the change because you know subconsciously, and will not
admit openly, that it means an utter break with the past. a new force has come into your world which
makes an end inevitable. which is it to be an dof your system of life." or of your system and
yourselves together? ioan looked puzzled. but do you mean that all tradition is to be thrown aside? why, you
