has been lying in wait. she recoiled with a gasp, but she could not run away. she was caught as
surely as she had been the night before. "hullo!" smiled sir eustace, with extended hand. "going out for a last
look round? may i come too?" she felt the dominance of his grip. it was coolly, imperially possessive. to answer
his request seemed superfluous, even bordering upon presumption. it was obvious that he had every intention of accompanying her. she
gave a confused murmur of assent, and they passed through the vestibule side by side. she was conscious of curious
glances from several strangers who were standing about, and eustace exchanged a few words with a species of regal condescension
here and there as they went. and then they Were out in the pure sunlight of the mountains, alone for
the last time in their paradise of snow. almost instinctively dinah turned up the winding track. they had half an
hour before them, and she felt she could not bear to stand still. he strolled beside her, idly smoking, not
troubling to make conversation, now as ever sublimely at his ease. the snow sparkled around them like a thousand gems
dinah s eyes were burning and smarting with the brightness, and still that tender waltz-music ran lilting through her brain,
drifting as it were through the mist of her unshed tears. suddenly he spoke. they were nearing the pine-wood and
quite alone. "is there anything the matter?" she choked down a great lump in her throat before she could speak
in answer. "no," she murmured then. "i--i am just--rather low about leaving; that s all." "quite all?" he said. his
tone was so casual, so normal, that it seemed impossible now to think of last night s happening save as
an extravagant dream. she almost felt for the moment as if she had imagined it all. and then he spoke
again, and she Caught a subtle note of tenderness in his voice that brought it all back upon her in
an overwhelming rush. "that s really all, is it? you re not unhappy about anything else? scott hasn t been
bullying you?" she gasped at the question. "oh no! oh no! he wouldn t! he couldn t! i--haven t even
seen him today." he received the information in silence; but in a moment or two he tossed away his cigarette
with the air of a man having come to an abrupt resolution. "and so you re fretting about going home?"
he said. she nodded mutely. the matter would not bear discussion. "poor little daphne." he said. "it s been a
good game, hasn t it?" she nodded again. "just like the dreams that never come true," she managed to say.
"would you like it to come true?" he asked her unexpectedly. she glanced up at him with a woeful little
smile. "it s no good thinking of that, is it?" she said. "i have an idea we could make it
come true between us," he said. she shook her head. that brief glimpse of his intent eyes had sent a
sudden and overwhelming wave of shyness through her. she remembered again the fiery holding of his arms, and was afraid.
he paused in his walk and turned aside to the railing that bounded the side of the track above the
steep, pine-covered descent. "wish hard enough," he said, "and all dreams come true!" dinah went with him as if compelled,
she leaned against the railing, glad of the support, while he sat down upon it. his attitude was supremely easy
and self-possessed. "do you know, Japhne," he said, "i ve taken a fancy to that particular dream myself? now i
ve caught you, i don t see myself letting you go again." her heart throbbed at his words. she bent
her head, fixing her eyes upon the rough wood upon which she leaned. "but it s no good, is it?"
she said, almost below her breath. "i ve just got to go." he put his hand on her shoulder, and
she was conscious afresh of the electricity of his touch. she shrank a little--a very little; for she was frightened,
albeit Curiously aware of a magnetism that drew her irresistibly. "yes, i suppose you ve got to go," he said.
"but--there s nothing to prevent me following you, is there?" she quivered from head to foot, that hand upon her
shoulder sent such a tumult of emotions through her that she could not collect her thoughts in any coherent order.
"i--i don t know," she whispered, bending her head still lower. "they--i don t know what they would say at
home." "your people?" his hand was drawing her now with an insistent pressure that would not be denied. "they d
probably dance on their heads with delight," he said, his tone one of slightly supercilious humour. "i assure you i
am considered something of a catch by a good many anxious mammas." she started at that, started and straightened herself,
lifting shy eyes to his. "oh, but we ve only been--playing," she said rather uncertainly. "just--just pretending to flirt, that
s all." he laughed, bending his handsome, imperious face to hers. "it s been a fairly solid pretence, hasn t
it?" he said. "but i m proposing something slightly different now. i an offering you my hand--as well as my
heart." dinah was trembling all over. she gasped for breath, drawing back slightly from the nearness of his lips. "do
you mean--you d like--to marry me?" she whispered tremulously, and hid her face on the instant; for the bald words
sounded preposterous. he laughed again, softly, half-mockingly, and drew her into his arms. "whatever made you think of that, my
elf of the mountains? i ll vow it came into your head first. ah, you needn t hide your eyes
from me. i know you re mine--all mine. i ve known it from the first--ever since you began to run
away. but i ve caught you now. haven t i? haven t i?" she clung to him desperately. it
