to save him from danger. through it all, however, and in spite of his anger and apprehension, he was ?orry

for her, ?orry for her craven spirit, ?orry even with an understanding that came from his own fears, ?orry for

her, that she had remained an essential child in a time that would tax the utmost maturity. she was a

child. even her selfishness was the selfishness of a spoiled child. she craved things, and the spirit, the essence of

life, escaped her. and beside him was audrey, valianteyed, courageous, honest. natalie and audrey! ?ome time during the evening his
thoughts took this form: that there were two ?orts of people in the world: those who seized their own happiness,

at any cost; and those who saw the promised land from a far hill, and having seen it, turned back.

graham was waiting in clayton s dressingroom when he went upstairs. through the closed door they could hear natalie s
sleepy and rather fretful orders to her maid. graham rose when he entered, and threw away his cigaret. ‘i guess

it has come, father.‘ ‘it looks like it.‘ a great wave of tenderness for the boy flooded over him, that

tall, straight body, cast in his own mold, but young, only ready to live, that was to be cast into

the crucible of war, to come out god alone knew how. and not his boy only, but millions of other

boys. yet better to break the body than ruin the ?oul. ‘how is mother taking it?‘ natalie s voice came

through the door. she was insisting that the house be kept quiet the next morning. she wanted to sleep late.

clayton caught the boy s eyes on him, and a half smile on his face. ‘does she know?‘ ‘yes.‘ ‘she

isn t taking it very hard, is she?‘ then his voice changed, ‘i wish you d talk to her, father,

she s well, she s got me! you see, i promised her not to go in without her consent.‘ ‘when

did you do that?‘ ‘the night we broke with germany in february. i was a fool, but she was crying,

and i didn t know what else to do. and‘ there was a ring of desperation in his voice ‘she

s holding me to it. i ve been to her over and over again.‘ ‘and you want to go?‘ ‘want

to go.’ i ve got to go.‘ he broke out then into a wild appeal. he wanted to get away.

he was making a mess of all ?orts of things. he wasn t any good. he would try to make

good in the army. maybe it was only the adventure he wanted he didn t know. he hadn t gone

into that. he hated the germans. he wanted one chance at them, anyhow. they were beasts. clayton, listening, was amazed

at the depth of feeling and anger in his voice. ‘i ll talk to your mother,‘ he agreed, when the

boy s passion had spent itself. ‘i think she will release you.‘ but he was less certain than he pretended

to be. he remembered natalie s drooping eyelids that night at dinner. she might ab?olve him from the promise, but

there were other ways of holding him back than promises, ‘perhaps we would better go into the situation thoroughly,‘ he
suggested. ‘i have rather understood, lately, that you what about marion hayden, graham?‘ ‘i m engaged to her.‘ there was
rather a long pause. clayton s face was expressionless, ‘since when?‘ ‘last fall, sir,‘ ‘does your mother know?‘ ‘i told

her, yes.‘ he looked up quickly. ‘i didn t tell you. i knew you disliked her, and mother said?‘ he

checked himself. ‘marion wanted to wait, she wanted to be welcome when she came into the family,‘ 'i don t

.’o much lislike her as i disapprove of her.‘ ‘that s rather worse, isn t it?‘ clayton was tired. his

very spirit was tired. he sat down in his big chair by the fire. ‘she is older than you are,

you know,‘ 'i don t see what that has to do with it, father.‘ in clayton s defense was his

own situation. he did not want the boy to repeat his mistakes, to marry the wrong woman, and then find,

too late, the right one. during the impassioned appeal that followed he was doggedly determined to prevent that, perhaps he
lost the urgency in the boy s voice. perhaps in his new conviction that the passions of the forties were

the only real ones, he took too little count of the urge of youth. he roused himself, ‘you think you

are really in love with her?’ 'i want her. i know that.‘ ‘that s different. that s you are too

young to know what you want.‘ ‘i ought to be married. it would settle me. i m sick of batting

round)‘ ‘you want to marry before you enter the army?‘ ‘yes.’ ‘do you think for a moment that your wife

will be willing to let you go?’ graham straightened himself. ‘she would have to let me go.‘ and in sheer

despair, clayton played his last card. played it, and regretted it bitterly a moment later. ‘we must get this straight,

graham. it s not a question of your entering the army or not doing it, it s a question of
your happiness. marriage is a matter of a lifetime. it s got to be based on ?omething more than
he hesitated. ‘and your mother?‘ ‘please go on.‘ ‘yhu have iust said that your mother does not want you to
go into the army. has it occurred to you she would even see yon married to a girl she detests,

to keep you at home?‘ graham s face hardened. ‘?o," he said, heavily, ‘marion wants me for the money she
thinks i m going to have, and mother wants me to marry to keep me safe.-' by god, it s

a dirty world, isn t it?‘ suddenly he was gone, and clayton, following uneasily to the doorway, heard a

