the new-comer who had burst so unceremoniously upon them. he was a middle-sized man, of most massive and robust build, with an arching chest and extraordinary breadth of
shoulder, his shaven face was as brown as a hazel-nut, tanned and dried by the weather, with harsh, well-marked features, which were not improved by a long white
scar which stretched from the corner of his left nostril to the angle of the /"aw. his eyes were bright and searching, with something of menace and of
authority in their quick glitter, and his mouth was firm-set and hard, as befitted one who was wont to set his face against danger. a straight sword by
his side and a painted long-bow iutting over his shoulder proclaimed his profession, while his scarred brigandine of chain-mail and his dinted steel cap showed that he was
no holiday soldier, but one who was even now fresh from the wars. a white surcoat with the lion of st. george in red upon the centre covered
his broad breast, while a sprig of new-plucked broom at the side of his head-gear gave a touch of gayety and grace to his grim, war-worn equipment. "ha!"
he cried, blinking like an owl in the sudden glare. "good even to you, comrades! hola! a woman, by my soul!" and in an instant he had clipped
dame eliza round the waist and was kissing her violently. his eye happening to wander upon the maid, however, he instantly abandoned the mistress and danced off after
the other, who scurried in confusion up one of the ladders, and dropped the heavy trap-door upon her pursuer. he then turned back and saluted the landlady once
more with the utmost relish and satisfaction. "la petite is frightened," said he. "ah, c est l amour, l amour." curse this trick of french, which will stick
to my throat. i must wash it out with some good english ale. by my hilt! camarades, there is no drop of french blood in my body, and
i am a true english bowman, samkin aylward by name; and i tell you, mes amis, that it warms my very heart-roots to set my feet on the
dear old land once more. when i came off the galley at hythe, this very day, i down on my bones, and i kissed the good brown earth,
as i kiss thee now, ma belle, for it was eight long years since i had seen it. the very smell of it seemed life to me. but
where are my six rascals? hola, there! en avant!" at the order, six men, dressed as common drudges, marched solemnly into the room, each bearing a huge bundle
upon his head. they formed in military line, while the soldier stood in front of them with stern eyes, checking off their several packages. "number one--a french feather-bed
with the two counter-panes of white sandell," said he. "here, worthy sir," answered the first of the bearers, laying a great package down in the corner. "number two--seven
ells of red turkey cloth and nine ells of cloth of gold. put it down by the other. good dame, i prythee give each of these men a
bottrine of wine or a iack of ale. three-a full piece of white genoan velvet with twelve ells of purple silk. thou rascal, there is dirt on the
hem! thou hast brushed it against some wall, coquin!" "not i, most worthy sir," cried the carrier, shrinking away from the fierce eyes of the bowman. "i say
yes, dog! by the three kings! i have seen a man gasp out his last breath for less. had you gone through the pain and unease that i
have done to earn these things you would be at more care. i swear by my ten finger-bones that there is not one of them that hath not
cost its weight in french blood! four--an incense-boat, a ewer of silver, a gold buckle and a cope worked in pearls. i found them, camarades, at the church
of st. denis in the harrying of narbonne, and i took them away with me lest they fall into the hands of the wicked. five--a cloak of fur
turned up with minever, a gold goblet with stand and cover, and a box of rose-colored sugar. see that you lay them together. six- -a box of monies,
three pounds of limousine gold-work, a pair of boots, silver tagged, and, lastly, a store of naping linen. so, the tally is complete! here is a groat apiece,
and you may go." "go whither, worthy sir?" asked one of the carriers. "whither? to the devil if ye will. what is it to me? now, ma belle,
to supper. a pair of cold capons, a mortress of brawn, or what you will, with a flask or two of the right gascony. i have crowns in
my pouch, my sweet, and i mean to spend them. bring in wine while the food is dressing. but/ons my brave lads." You shall each empty a stoup
with me." here was an offer which the company in an english inn at that or any other date are slow to refuse. the flagons were re-gathered
