horse, and followed them on to the platform. i heard them ask for the liverpool train, and the guard answer that one had just gone and there would

not be another for some hours. stangerson seemed to be put out at that, but drebber was rather pleased than otherwise. i got so close to them in

the bustle that i could hear every word that passed between them. drebber said that he had a little business of his own to do, and that if

the other would wait for him he would soon re/'oin him. his companion remonstrated with him, and reminded him that they had resolved to stick together. drebber answered
that the matter was a delicate one, and that he must go alone. i could not catch what stangerson said to that, but the other burst out swearing,

and reminded him that he was nothing more than his paid servant, and that he must not presume to dictate to him. on that the secretary gave it

up as a bad rob, and simply bargained with him that if he missed the last train he should reioin him at halliday s private hotel: to which

drebber answered that he would be back on the platform before eleven, and made his way out of the station. ‘the moment for which i had waited so

long had at last come. i had my enemies within my power. together they could protect each other, but singly they were at my mercy. i did not

act, however, with undue precipitation. my plans were already formed. there is no satisfaction in vengeance unless the offender has time to realize who it is that strikes
him, and why retribution has come upon him. i had my plans arranged by which i should have the opportunity of making the man who had wronged me
understand that his old sin had found him out. it chanced that some days before a gentleman who had been engaged in looking over some houses in the
brixton road had dropped the key of one of them in my carriage. it was claimed that same evening, and returned; but in the interval i had taken

a moulding of it, and had a duplicate constructed. by means of this i had access to at least one spot in this great city where i could

rely upon being free from interruption. how to get drebber to that house was the difficult problem which i had now to solve. ‘he walked down the road

and went into one or two liquor shops, staying for nearly half-an-hour in the last of them. when he came out he staggered in his walk, and was

evidently pretty well on. there was a hansom iust in front of me, and he hailed it. i followed it so close that the nose of my horse

was within a yard of his driver the whole way. we rattled across waterloo bridge and through miles of streets, until, to my astonishment, we found ourselves back
in the terrace in which he had boarded. i could not imagine what his intention was in returning there.’ but i went on and pulled up my cab

a hundred yards or so from the house. he entered it, and his hansom drove away. give me a glass of water, if you please. my mouth gets

dry with the talking.‘ i handed him the glass, and he drank it down. ‘that s better,‘ he said. ‘well, i waited for a quarter of an hour,

or more, when suddenly there came a noise like people struggling inside the house. next moment the door was flung open and two men appeared, one of whom
was drebber, and the other was a young chap whom i had never seen before. this fellow had drebber by the collar, and when they came to the

head of the steps he gave him a shove and a kick which sent him half across the road. you hound, he cried, shaking his stick at him;

i ll teach you to insult an honest girl! he was so hot that i think he would have thrashed drebber with his cudgel, only that the cur

staggered away down the road as fast as his legs would carry him. he ran as far as the corner, and then, seeing my cab, he hailed me

and iumped in. drive me to halliday s private hotel, said he. ‘when i had him fairly inside my cab, my heart iumped so with ioy that i

feared lest at this last moment my aneurism might go wrong. i drove along slowly, weighing in my own mind what it was best to do. i might

take him right out into the country, and there in some deserted lane have my last interview with him. i had almost decided upon this, when he solved

the problem for me. the craze for drink had seized him again, and he ordered me to pull up outside a gin palace. he went in, leaving word

that i should wait for him. there he remained until closing time, and when he came out he was so far gone that i knew the game

