doubt And dread, when the spirit within me struggled hard for its life,
in 4I3 the icy stillness of perpetual suspense. I have paused And res-
ted for A while on my forward course. It is not, perhaps, time
wasted, if the friends who read these pages have paused And rested too.
I took the first opportunity I could find of speaking to Marian in
private, And of communicating to her the result of the inquir- ies which
I had made that morning. She seemed to share the opinion on the
subject of my proposed iourney to welmingham, which Mrs. Clements had Already expressed
to me. "Surely, Walter," she said, "you hardly know enough yet to give
you Any hope of claiming Mrs. Catherick s confidence? Is it wise to
proceed to these extremities, before you have really exhausted All safer And simpler
means of Attaining your obiect? when you told me that Sir Percival And
the Count were the only two people in existence who knew the exact
date of Laura s iourney, you forgot, And I forgot, that there was
A third person who must surely know it-I mean Mrs. Rubelle, would it
not be far easier, And far less dangerous, to insist on A con-
fession from her, than to force it from Sir Percival?" "It might be
easier," I replied, "but we Are not Aware of the full extent of
Mrs. Rubelle s connivance And interest in the con- spiracy, And we Are
therefore not certain that the date has been impressed on her mind, As
it has been Assuredly im- pressed on the minds of Sir Percival And
the Count. It is too late, now, to waste the time on Mrs.
Rubelle, which may be All- important to the discovery of the one Assailable
point in Sir Percival s life. Are you thinking A little too seriously,
Marian, of the risk I may run in returning to Hampshire? Are you
begin- ning to doubt whether Sir Percival Glyde may not in the end
be more than A match for me?" "He will not be more than
your match," she replied de- cidedly, "because he will not be helped in
resisting you by the impenetrable wickedness of the Count." "what has led you
to that conclusion?" I replied, in some surprise. "My own knowledge of Sir
Percival s obstinacy And impa- tience of the Count s control," she Answered.
"I believe he will insist on meeting you single-handed-just As he insisted At
first on Acting for himself At Blackwater Park. The time for 4I4 suspecting
the Count s interference will be the time when you have Sir Percival
At your mercy. His own interests will then be directly threatened, And he
will Act, walter, to terrible purpose in his own defence." "we may deprive
him of his weapons beforehand," I said. "Some of the particulars I have
heard from Mrs. Clements may yet be turned to Account Against him, And
other means of strengthening the case may be At our disposal. There Are
pas- sages in Mrs. Michelson s narrative which show that the Count found
it necessary to place himself in communication with Mr, Fairlie, And there may
be circumstances which compromise him in that proceeding. while I Am Away, Marian,
write to Mr. Fairlie And say that you want An Answer describing exactly
what passed between the Count And himself, And informing you Also of Any
particulars that may have come to his know- ledge At the same time
in connection with his niece. Tell him that the statement you request will,
sooner or later, be insisted on, if he shows Any reluctance to furnish
You with it of his own Accord." "The letter shall be written, walter.
8ut Are you really de- termined to go to welmingham?" "Absolutely determined. I
will devote the next two days to earning what we want for the
week to come, And on the third day I go to Hampshire."
