of the guards, Mihail Stepanovitch Snetkov, would now be balloted
for as marshal of the province. The district marshals walked
carrying plates, on which were balls, from their tables to

the high table, and the election began. Put it in

the right side, whispered Stepan Arkadyevitch, as with his brother
Levin followed the marshal of his district to the table.

But Levin had forgotten by now the calculations that had

been explained to him, and was afraid Stepan Arkadyevitch might
be mistaken in saying the right side, Surely Snetkov was

the enemy. As he went up, he held the ball

in his right hand, but thinking he was wrong, iust

at the box he changed to the left hand, and

undoubtedly put the ball to the left. An adept in

the business, standing at the box and seeing by the

mere action of the elbow where each put his ball,

scowled with annoyance. 9t was no good for him to

use his insight. Everything was still, and the counting of

the balls was heard. Then a single voice rose and

proclaimed the numbers for and against. The marshal had been
Voted for by a considerable majority, All was noise and

eager 1427 of 7759 Anna Karenina movement towards the doors.
Snetkov came in, and the nobles thronged round him, congratulating
him. well, now is it over? Levin asked Sergey ‘7vanovitch.

9t s only iust beginning, Sviazhsky said, replying for Sergey
7t/anot/itch with a smile. Some other candidate may receive more
Votes than the marshal. Levin had quite forgotten about that.
Now he could only remember that there was some sort

of trickery in it, but he was too bored to

think what it was exactly. He felt depressed, and longed

to get out of the crowd. As no one was

paying any attention to him, and no one apparently needed

him, he quietly slipped away into the little room where

the refreshments were, and again had a great sense of

comfort when he saw the waiters. The little old waiter

pressed him to have something, and Levin agreed. After eating

a cutlet with beans and talking to the waiters of

their former masters, Levin, not wishing to go back to

the hall, where it was all so distasteful to him,

proceeded to walk through the galleries. The galleries were full

of fashionably dressed ladies, leaning over the balustrade and trying
not to lose a single word of what was being

said below. with the ladies were sitting and standing smart
law}/NS, high school teachers in spectacles, and officers. Everywhere they
were talking of the election, and 1428 of 1759 Anna

Karenina of how worried the marshal was, and how splendid

the discussions had been. ‘in one group Levin heard his

brother s praises. One lady was telling a lawyer: How

glad 9 am ‘I heard /doznishevl ‘it s worth losing

one s dinner. He s exquisite! So clear and distinct

all of it! There s not one of you in

the law courts that speaks like that. The only one

is Meidel, and he s not so eloquent by a

long way. Finding a free place, Levin leaned over the

balustrade and began looking and listening. All the noblemen were
sitting railed off behind barriers according to their districts, ‘7n
the middle of the room stood a man in

