incident on their hands. high level incident! laughed christopher, on the brink of hysteria. that s one way of looking
at it! try not to get wound up about it, amaryllis advised. you ll find there isn t room in
your brain to think about all that happened yesterday in one go. better to just accept that caroline s being
taken care of now, and that yesterday is in the past. so - you do trauma counselling as part of
your fob? said christopher. it s really a complete package, isn t it? i suppose filling in the funding application
is a kind of therapy? have you got a mole on the council as well? certainly not.-" said amaryllis sharply,
and then with a visible effort softened her tone, as if recalling that christopher was in a vulnerable state and
she should be gentle with him. no i lust believe in collaborating with people whose interests happen to coincide with
mine. wasn t that how we got into cahoots with stalin? said christopher lazily, getting up from the kitchen table
and moving through to the sitting-room, where he picked up an old copy of archives unlimited , his favourite light
reading. it wasn t until the following day that he had the energy to try and find out about amaryllis,
the glory days of the village hall, and the reason she had got stuck in the tunnel. the answers were
rather surprising. it s because of my father, she said simply. he lived in pitkirtly. years ago, of course. he
came here just before the war. christopher was taken aback. he had not imagined amaryllis would turn out to have
any scottish connections, although he had of course wondered what she was doing in such a small, relatively boring town
which might have seemed to someone from the south to be in the middle of nowhere. was he from around
here? he asked, afraid of pushing too hard. she hesitated, thought about it and said, not exactly.... he was a
refugee at first. a refugee? before the war? where from?... don t answer that if you d rather not. a
iewish refugee. from germany, she said, apparently reluctant to tell him. ah, said christopher, trying to sound sympathetic - not
that he didn t feel genuine sympathy for somebody who had had to leave their homeland and, presumably, some of
his friends and relations, behind and flee to a cold northerly climate where people might not necessarily be welcoming. and
he ended up in pitkirtly? yes... he settled down here and got married. then - she hesitated again, and christopher
held his breath. - he made lots of money and wanted to give something back to the town, she said
in a final rush, apparently embarrassed. that s good, said christopher, not really understanding. so - what did he give
back? he re-built the village hall, said amaryllis. ah, said christopher. something was becoming clearer, but he still couldn t
quite make out what sort of shape it had. the one in merchantman wynd. you know. the one - yes,
the one where you got stuck in the tunnel behind the cupboard under the sink, said christopher. the one we
went to see with steve paxman and the one he was in raptures over. the one that s almost a
ruin again but some people think can be restored to its former glory. i m sorry i didn t tell
you before, she said. the old hall was a ruin - worse than it is now - people had taken
away the stone to build houses so there was hardly anything left. what, did he make the tunnel too? having
previously been content to carry on not knowing anything about amaryllis, christopher now wanted to know everything. or at least,
everything that was relevant. he hadn t quite defined the word relevant in his own mind yet. no, the tunnel
used to belong to a gang of smugglers, said amaryllis, and smiled suddenly. my mother s family - they kept
the secret to themselves for a couple of centuries. it s been handed down through the family. so that s
why you were checking it out the other night, said christopher, and felt relieved that there hadn t been any
more sinister purpose behind her night-time excursion, lucky it didn t fall in on you, somebody s been looking after
it, she said, but didn t say who it was. perhaps the landlord of the elgin arms, he thought. he
could always have used it for storage as well - maybe he even kept up the tradition and stored things
he didn t want the vat man or the excise people to know about. pity they didn t keep it
free of spiders! said christopher. my father would have hated to see the hall the way it is now, said
amaryllis wistfully. he always said he d seen enough destruction for several lifetimes. he was still rather wary of this
new softer amaryllis, and would almost have preferred her to show her acerbic old self, at least occasionally. but no
doubt that one would come rushing back from vacation if the need arose. so, he said, what do you think
are the chances of the council paying for it to be restored? she frowned. not that great, to be honest.
it s a bit of a wreck. it was built in the early 50s when it was hard to get
good building materials. not like all those old victorian church halls and libraries, built from stone and built to last.
early 505? so, very nearly historic, then? it ll cost a fortune to restore, anyway, said amaryllis. i m not
even sure how much. i suppose part of the form is to do with getting estimates. quite a maior building
job, commented christopher. maybe in the big society Lye re meant to get together, rope in local builders and structural
engineers on a voluntary basis, and do it themselves, for the cost of the materials. but i can t
