geese. the tanker flight chief took rick and don to the nco club for a late midnight meal while the

ut transit tanker ground crew refueled 3653 for them. you ll be going to kadena as soon as they finish

the refuel. you re our round robin flight for the day. you left guam, came here, will go to kadena

to stay. another tanker will go to guam from kadena this afternoon, then come here and back to kadena. you
ll probably fly a round robin about once or twice more while you re here. when the flight chief dropped
them off at their tanker the new flight crew had already arrived and was starting their preflight. as would happen
many times in the world of sac they were amongst friends. the flight crew was from fairchild and rick had
flown with them out of their home base. ‘where did you guys go. to sattahip for a short time
chief?‘ the pilot hollered from where he sat in his cockpit seat. ‘i ll be down in a second and
we can do our walk around.‘ ‘okay captain. and no, we weren t in sattahip. they have drive up window

service here, sir. no need to go downtown at ut anymore. didn t the boomer clue you in to that?

he s been here before and should be up on the finer social convenient aspects of the sattahip bar girls.‘

‘he s shaking his head no, rick. says to tell you that you re the same wise ass that was

at fairchild and payback is hell. i ll be down in a sec.‘ when rick climbed abread 3653 after engine

start he realized that the cargo compartment was almost full of geese. looking aft through the cockpit door he waited

for the boom operator to enter the cockpit. ‘we have 86 passengers, rick, 8 mail bags stowed aft towards the

boom pod. and those two pallets iust aft of the cargo door.‘ ‘what are they boom?‘ ‘spare tanker parts for

kadena the manifest says. they came in on a c147 earlier. i guess the 141 forgot to stop at kadena

so we ended up taking them.‘ ‘you managed to end up here at kadena instead of ut. how did you

manage that?‘ were the first words out of msgt. bob kruse s mouth when rick stepped onto the tarmac at

kadena afb. ‘actually i had pull from some of kadena s ncos.‘ the two friends gave each other a quick

hug. ‘this is don naylor, my new right hand man and back up. i found him wandering around the flightline

at fairchild so i kidnapped him.‘ rick introduced his new assistant to kruse. ‘don, if you have any problems getting

along with sgt. davis let me know. i know all of his secrets and hang ups.‘ without any further comment,

kruse picked up an awol bag and parachute bag from the pile of gear the two crew chiefs had taken

off their tanker, and started for his truck. ‘come on. i ll take you to the transit barracks. since you

ll be here for at least 14 days tdy, you don t get to spend it in the luxury of

the vboq.‘ ‘what happened after we left that gave us a chance at such a short tdy here, bob? ‘somebody

in plans and scheduling screwed up to put it bluntly. they had 3653, listed as a young tiger on a

720 day tdy. when as we know, you were only here on hold for the f4s coming out of thailand.

so they ended up being a tanker short. they couldn t get an additional tanker for the full 720 days

until after 1 september, but 3653 was available until the 3rd or 4th of september. so here you are.‘ after

they pulled up in front of the transit barracks kruse picked up a manilla folder from the pickup s seat.

opened it and carefully keeping the contents from rick s view, extracted several sheets of mimeographed papers. ‘thought that you
might be interested in this message from fairchild that came for you yesterday.‘ he handed rick the stapled together sheets
with a big smile. rick skimmed the contents of the top sheet. ‘holy shit! are these for real, bob?‘ ‘congratulations

staff sergeant. not bad, staff in Just over four years.‘ ‘so when are we on the schedule, bob?‘ rick asked

as msgt, kruse was starting down the barracks stairs after helping the crew chiefs carry flight gear to their room,
‘monday, the 27st. be your first combat mission. you ll be flying a combat apple patrol mission off of the

coast of vietnam. so en/'oy your day off tomorrow and meet me in the nco club for dinner after you

come back from naha. about 1930 hours or so.‘ ‘who said anything about naha?‘ ‘i iust think that it s

a given. you seem to have been drawn in that direction on your last trip to the island.‘ don naylor

had passed on the opportunity of going to naha with rick. he had met up with a couple of people

he had known before. the male of the pair had a car, an old 7952 olds, but nonetheless transportation. the

three of them were going to spend the day exploring the island s beaches. so rick was on his own.

after a leisurely brunch at the nco club, rick had grabbed a pink sukoshi cab at the highway #1 gate

and soon found himself window shopping on kokusai dori. he had wandered up one side of the street and down

the other wandering through several small stores and the huge ryubo department store. he ended up buying two more short
sleeved shirts with hawaiian-like floral patterns he had seen many okinawan men wearing and a set of panasonic headphones for
his stereo. he had a small apartment in medical lake, a small town outside of fairchild afb, and often worried

that his stereo was too loud and would bother his neighbors. rick hesitated on the sidewalk before realizing that

I

