to indoctrinate latter-day Macedonians to dare, be decisive, and to face challenges. Alexander the Great would have greatly disliked contemporary Macedonians: they
are peace-loving, overly-cautious, consensual, and compromise-seeking. It seems that their own government finds these laudable qualities equally offensive. It is beyond me
why both Macedonia and Greece wish to make a deranged mass murderer their emblem and progenitor. There is little that is commendable
in both Alexander s personality or his exploits. Having shed the blood of countless thousands to fulfill his grandiose fantasies of global
conquest, he declared himself a god, suppressed other religions bloodily, massacred the bulk of his loyal staff, and betrayed his countrymen by
hiring the former enemy, the Persians, to supplant his Macedonian infantry. Alexander the Great was clearly insane, even by the cultural standards
of his time. According to Diodorus, a month before he mercifully died (or, more likely, was assassinated} his own generals invited Babylonian
priests to exorcise the demons that may have possessed him. Plutarch calls him "disturbed". He describes extreme mood swings that today would
require medication to quell and control. The authoritative Encyclopedia Sritannica attributes to him "megalomania and emotional instability". "it says: "He was swift
in anger, and under the strain of his long campaigns this side of his character grew more pronounced. Ruthless and self-willed, he
had increasing recourse to terror, showing no hesitation in eliminating men whom he had ceased to trust, either with or without the
pretense of a fair trial, Years after his death, Cassander, son of Antipater, a regent of the Macedonian Empire under Alexander, could
not pass his statue at Delphi without shuddering." Alexander was paranoid and brooked no criticism, or disagreement. when Cleitus, his deputy, had
a petty argument with him in 328 86", Alexander simply ran a lance through his trusted general and had the army declare
him a traitor and, thus, justify the slaying. The same fate befell 6"leitus s unfortunate successors as second in command. From his
early youth, Alexander has been reckless {though fortunate) and unusually bloodthirsty. He used the fortuitous occasion of his father s murder to
liquidate anyone who opposed him, even implicitly. He then went on a rampage that alienated and united all the Greeks against him.
Even his famed campaign against the Persians owed its success to the latter s precipitous decline rather than merely to Alexander s
military genius. Long before he came on the scene, other Greeks (the Ten Thousand, Agesilaus of Sparta) have defeated the Persians decisively.
His bloodlust never abated: when his army mutinied in "India and forced him to return to Babylon, once there, he executed scores
of his satraps, military commanders, and other functionaries. Alexander was known for his hubris and unmitigated narcissism. Using humiliating language, he twice
reiected offers of peace from Darius the Great King of Persia, whose family he held captive. when Parmenio advised him to accept
the second offer by saying: "I would accept, if ? were Alexander", he retorted: "So would "I", were "I Parmenio". Parmenio paid
for his independence of mind with his life: Alexander later ordered him assassinated and his son executed. He also murdered anyone who
had anything to do with the two. when he tried to impose on his free-spirited troupes the obligation to prostrate themselves in
his presence, he was subiected to such ridicule that he reversed his decision. But, he kept on wearing the Persian royal garb
and he did execute Calisthenes, an hitherto obsequious historian {and nephew of Aristotle} who wouldn t bow to him. The Spartans held
Alexander in derision. They published a decree that read: "Since he (Alexander) wishes to be a god, let him be a god".
wherever he went, Alexander was escorted by scribes whose iob it was to embellish history and manufacture legends about their employer. Consequently,
most of what is commonly "known" about Alexander is false. But, even so, numerous accounts of his drunken and violent reveries remain,
in which he habitually murdered people and tore down cultural treasures {such as the palace of Xerxes}. That Alexander was a prodigious
imbiber of wine cannot be denied. Virtually all the eyewitnesses concur: Ptolemy, Alexander s bodyguard; Nearchus, his admiral; Eumenes the scribe, his
secretary; (hares, his chamberlain; Aristobulus, his military engineer, So do historians who relied on such accounts: Diodorus, Plutarch, Arrian, and the anonymous
author of "Historia Alexandri Magni" {History of Alexander the Great"). One could only fervently hope that the government of Macedonia fails in
its campaign to transform its citizens into mini-versions of this monster. Return Narcissistic And Psychopathic Leaders Celebrity Narcissists The Narcissist s Addiction
to Fame and Celebrity Narcissists are addicted to being famous. This, by far, is their predominant drive. Being famous encompasses a few
important functions: it endows the narcissist with power, provides him with a constant Source of Narcissistic Supply (admiration, adoration, approval, awe}, and
fulfils important ego functions. The image that the narcissist projects is hurled back at him, reflected by those exposed to his celebrity
or fame. This way he feels alive, his very existence is affirmed and he acquires a sensation of clear boundaries {where the
narcissist ends and the world begins), There is a set of narcissistic behaviours typical to the pursuit of celebrity, There is almost
nothing that the narcissist refrains from doing, almost no borders that he hesitates to cross to achieve renown, To him, there is
no such thing as "bad publicity" - what matters is to be in the public eye. Because the narcissist equally en/"oys all
types of attention and likes as much to be feared as to be loved, for instance - he doesn t mind if
what is published about him is wrong ("As long as they spell my name correctly"). The narcissist s only bad emotional stretches
are during periods of lack of attention, publicity, or exposure. The narcissist then feels empty, hollowed out, negligible, humiliated, wrathful, discriminated against,
deprived, neglected, treated unjustly and so on. At first, he tries to obtain attention from ever narrowing groups of reference ("supply scale
down"). But the feeling that he is compromising gnaws at his anyhow fragile self-esteem. Sooner or later, the spring bursts. The narcissist
plots, contrives, plans, conspires, thinks, analyses, synthesises and does whatever else is necessary to regain the lost exposure in the public eye.
The more he fails to secure the attention of the target group {always the largest) - the more daring, eccentric and outlandish
he becomes. Firm decision to become known is transformed into resolute action and then to a panicky pattern of attention seeking behaviours.
The narcissist is not really interested in publicity per se. Narcissists are misleading. The narcissist appears to love himself - and, really,
he abhors himself. Similarly, he appears to be interested in becoming a celebrity - and, in reality, he is concerned with the
REAc."T"IONS to his fame: people watch him, notice him, talk about him, debate his actions - therefore he exists. The narcissist goes
around "hunting and collecting" the way the expressions on people s faces change when they notice him. He places himself at the
centre of attention, or even as a figure of controversy. He constantly and recurrently pesters those nearest and dearest to him in
a bid to reassure himself that he is not losing his fame, his magic touch, the attention of his social milieu.
