on both sides of the room. marcia attempts to sweep stephen through the room quickly. a old man in a
tam raises his cup, "huzzah, the man of the hour!" all in the room turn toward stephen who frowns. "he
is here. the man who will open thrycion to us!" others now close in closer to stephen and marcia, expectant.
stephen realizes they are waiting for him to speak. "thank you, thank you, everyone. it is wonderful that the blade
8: bolt community has quickly come to my aid. helping with everyone that must occur before the gamers gate to
thrycion is opened. thank you for believing me and thank you -" marcia raises a hand and steps in front
of stephen. "and the way that you can all help stephen the most right now is to let us go
upstairs to speak with damon. stephen cannot stay in one place too long, the fast we are in and out
of here the better chance we all have of travelling to thrycion soon. thank you! please, let us pass." disappointment
radiates through the crowd before they part and allow the two to pass through the wide, art spotted halls and
up the elegant stairs to the second floor. as they walk, marcia points and draws in just a few of
the many blade 8! bolt players in the mansion. they follower her as she leads stephen into large room that
is tight with workstations, server racks and a number of coders pointing and discussing a complex line chart on a
smartboard. damon, who seems to be the center of the conversation, wears a hoodie that looks too big for his
gaunt frame. "stephen, excellent. we can begin." he immediately returns to his workstation where a mac, a pc and a
linux netbook sit, connected to six screens. as he spins up applications, services and sites, marcia introduces stephen to everyone
in the room. "stephen, this is michael sventon, he is in charge of getting all the gear that is needed
for your communication streams; mobiles, computers, software; free, open source and purchased. this is tricia rivers. she is arranging for
transportation for all the mission critical tasks that need to be completed. this is delano ericson. he will be aggregating
the huge of amount of media information that is surrounding your return to thrycion. he can help you determine the
few stories you wish to respond to, if any, and keep the community informed of what is truth and what
is not. damon, here is in charge of your outgoing communications to everyone but the blade 8: bolt community. he
will be making sure that you can communicate out whatever you wish to whoever you wish with as much broadcast
or privacy as you desire, whenever, wherever you are." damon nods and stephen notices that his pupils are white, as
though he were blind. it takes stephen a meeting to realize these are cosmetic contacts. "first order of business is
getting a video out to the masses, correct?" stephen pulls an aeron chair and sits. "yes, how long after we
record will it take to distribute?" damon smiles, "i can have the video posted to viewtube within five meetings after
you finish. i have about 150 rpg sites ready to distribute whatever message you give in text, podcast, hd radio
and as many other electronic formats as you can think of. however, i think the trigger will be if it
is boing boinged pretty soon after its posted. from there it will spread like wildfire through blogosphere, web communities and
all the cross communities. larpers, comic fans, mmo crowd and the sci-fi community. they all have a lot of love
for the table-top rpg community, or at least respect. they will help." stephen nods. can we get started? i am
actually quite anxious to get this done." a thin goth brings a bottled water to him and damon rises from
the seat. stephen sits down in front of a stark white backdrop and marcia places the nikon dslr in front
of him. "go when you are ready." stephen sits on the stool in front on the black sheet backdrop, "hello,
my name is stephen cairnhist and i am college student at millersgrove university in lancaster, pa. since i was twelve
years old i have enjoyed the table-top roleplaying game blade and bolt. in addition to enjoying hundreds of hours of
gaming and gaining well over a dozen intelligent, imaginative friends, the game also opened up an area of scholarly pursuit
for me. i systematically learned every detail of every product published for blade and bolt. i also studied the life
of the creator of the game, christopher korbach, and how he brought his brilliant table-top roleplaying game to market. last
week, christopher korbach spoke at the largest gaming convention in the world, gamecon. he stated that blade and bolt was
not actually a game but instead an encyclopedia, a guide he had written for a world called thrycion. christopher korbach
declared that in 1I6I he traveled through a portal in mount gibbes, a peak in the black mountains of north
carolina. today, i am specifically speaking to the hundreds of thousands of b&b players in the united states of america
and throughout the world. please listen to me. thrycion, the world described in blade and bolt is absolutely real. now,
i need to make this crystal clear because people have accused our gaming culture of not being able to tell
reality from fantasy. thrycion is not a world made by magic with its source the blade and bolt rpg. thrycion
is real world, with real people, real creatures, real magic that christopher korbach discovered by going through the mount gibbes
portal. b&b is travel guide to a world as real as earth. make no mistake, what has occured is first
contact event. we now know that man is not alone in the universe, there are planets other than earth that
are populated by sentient life. ok. please keep that clear as you listen to me. thrycion is connected to
