in my face, with A pleading fear And confusion that it troubled me

to see. what could 9 do? Here was A stranger utterly And helplessly

At my mercy-And that stranger A forlorn woman. No house was near: no
one was passing whom 9 could consult.‘ And no earthly right existed on

my part to give me A power of control over her, even if

9 had known how to exercise it. 9 trace these lines, self-distrustfully, with
the shadows of After-events dark- ening the very paper 9 write on; And

still ‘7 say, what Could '7 do? what 9 did do, was to

try And gain time by questioning her. ‘Are you sure that your friend

in London will receive you At such A late hour As this?‘ ‘7

said. ‘Quite sure. Only say you will let me leave you when And

how 9 please-only say you won t interfere with me. will you promise?‘

2.? As she repeated the words for the third time, she came close

to me And laid her hand, with A sudden gentle stealthiness, on my

bosom-A thin hand,’ A cold hand (when 9 removed it with mine) even

on that sultry night. Remember that 9 was young; remember that the hand
which touched me was A woman s. ‘will you promise?‘ ‘Yes.‘ One word.’

The little familiar word that is on everybody s lips, every hour in

the day. Oh me! And 9 tremble, now, when 9 write it. we

set our faces towards London, And walked on together in the first still

hour of the new day-9, And this woman, whose name, whose character, whose
story, whose ob/'ects in life, whose very presence by my side, At that
moment, were fathom- less mysteries to me. ‘it was like A dream. was

9 walter Hartright? was this the well-known, uneventful road, where holiday people strolled
on Sundays? Had 9 really left, little more than An hour since, the

quiet, decent, conventionally do- mestic Atmosphere of my mother s cottage? 9 was
too be- wildered-too conscious Also of A vague sense of something like self-reproach-to
speak to my st range companion for some minutes. 9t was her voice Again
that first broke the silence between us. '9 want to Ask you something,‘

she said suddenly. ‘Do you know many people in London?‘ ‘Yes, A great
many,‘ ‘Many men of rank And title?‘ There was An unmistakable tone of
suspicion in the strange question. 9 hesitated About An- swering it. ‘Some,‘ 9
said, After A moment s silence. ‘Many’-she came to A full stop, And

looked me searchingly in the face-‘many men of the rank of Baronet?‘ Too
much Astonished to reply, 9 questioned her in my turn. ‘why do you

Ask?‘ ‘Because 9 hope, for my own sake, there is one Baronet that

you don t know.‘ ‘will you tell me his name?‘ '9 can t-9

daren t-9 forget myself when 9 mention it.‘ She spoke loudly And Almost
fiercely, raised her clenched hand in the Air, And shook it passionately; then,
on A sudden, controlled 23 herself Again, And Added, in tones lowered to

A whisper ‘Tell me which of them YOU know.‘ 9 could hardly refuse

to humour her in such A trifle, And 9 mentioned three names. Two,

the names of fathers of families whose daughters 9 taught; one, the name
of A bachelor who had once taken me A cruise in his yacht,

to make sketches for him. ‘Ah! you DON T know him,‘ she said,

with A sigh of relief. ‘Are you A man of rank And title

yourself?‘ ‘Far from it. 9 Am only A drawing-master.‘ As the reply passed
my lips-A little bitterly, perhaps-she took my Arm with the Abruptness which characterised
All her Actions. ‘Not A man of rank And title,‘ she repeated to

herself. ‘Thank God! 9 may trust H9M.‘ 9 had hitherto contrived to master
my curiosity out of consid- eration for my companion; but it got

