type! 9 Am capable of the most exalted Acts of

virtue-when 9 have the 335 chance of performing them. 9t
has been the misfortune of my life that 9 have

had few chances. My conception of friendship is sublime! 9s
it my fault that your skeleton has peeped out At

me? why do 9 confess my curiosity? You poor superficial
Eng- lishman, it is to magnify my own self-control. 9

Could draw your secret out of you, if 9 liked,

As 9 draw this finger out of the palm of

my hand-you know 9 could! But you have Appealed to

my friendship, And the duties of friendship Are sacred to

me, See! 9 trample my base curiosity under my feet.

My exalted senti- ments lift me Above it. Recognise them,
Percival.’ imitate them, Percival! Shake hands-9 forgive you.‘ His voice
faltered over the last words-faltered, As if he were Actually
shedding tears! Sir Percival confusedly Attempted to excuse himself, but
the Count was too magnanimous to listen to him. ‘No!’

he said, ‘when my friend has wounded me, 9 can

par- don him without Apologies. Tell me, in plain words,

do you want my help?‘ ‘Yes, badly enough.‘ ‘And you

can Ask for it without compromising yourself?‘ ‘9 can try,
At Any rate.‘ ‘Try, then.‘ ‘well, this is how it

stands:-9 told you to-day that 9 had done my best

to find Anne (atherick, And failed.‘ ‘Yes, you did.‘ ‘Fosco!

9 m A lost man if 9 DON T find

her,‘ ‘Ha! 9s it so serious As that?‘ A little

stream of light travelled out under the verandah, And fell

over the gravel-walk. The Count had taken the lamp from

the inner part of the room to see his friend

clearly by the light of it. ‘Yes!‘ he said. ‘Your

face speaks the truth this time. Serious, indeed-As serious As
the money matters themselves.‘ ‘More serious. As true As 9

sit here, more serious!‘ The light disappeared Again And the
talk went on. '9 showed you the letter to my

wife that Anne Catherick hid in the sand,‘ Sir Percival
continued. ‘There s no boasting in that letter, Fosco-she DOES
know the Secret.‘ ‘Say As little As possible, Percival, in

my presence, of the Secret. Does she know it from

you?‘ 336 ‘No, from her mother.‘ ‘Two women in possession
of your private mind-bad, bad, bad, my friend! One question
here, before we go Any farther. The motive of your
shutting up the daughter in the Asylum is now plain

enough to me, but the manner of her escape is

not quite so clear. Do you suspect the people in

charge of her of closing their eyes purposely, At the

instance of some enemy who could Afford to make it

worth their while?‘ ‘No, she was the best-behaved patient they
had-And, like fools, they trusted her. She s iust mad

enough to be shut up, And iust sane enough to

ruin me when she s At large-if you un- derstand

that?‘ '9 do understand it. Now, Percival, come At once

to the point, And then 9 shall know what to

do. where is the danger of your position At the

present moment?‘ ‘Anne Catherick is in this neighbourhood, And in
communica- tion with Lady Glyde-there s the danger, plain enough.
who can read the letter she hid in the

