she moved a little towards him. 80th felt that the formality of introduction
was out of place. He spoke to her. 9 ve been looking for

you all my life, he said. You ve come at last, she murmured.

will you dance with me? She surrendered herself to his outstretched hands and
they danced. (Philip always pretended that he was not lame.) She danced divinely.
9 ve never danced with anyone who danced like you, she said. 560

of 1241 Of Human Bondage She tore up her programme, and they danced
together the whole evening. ‘7 m so thankful that ‘7 waited for you,

he said to her. ‘7 knew that in the end 7 must meet

you. People in the ball-room stared. They did not care. They did not

wish to hide their passion. At last they went into the garden. He

flung a light cloak over her shoulders and put her in a waiting

cab. They caught the midnight train to Paris; and they sped through the
silent, star-lit night into the unknown. He thought of this old fancy of

his, and it seemed impossible that he should be in love with Mildred

Rogers. Her name was grotesque. He did not think her pretty; he hated

the thinness of her, only that evening he had noticed how the bones

of her chest stood out in evening-dress; he went over her features one

by one; he did not like her mouth, and the unhealthiness of her

colour vaguely repelled him. She was common. Her phrases, so bald and few,
constantly repeated, showed the emptiness of her mind.’ he recalled her Vulgar little
laugh at the jokes of the musical comedy; and he remembered the little

finger carefully extended when she held her glass to her mouth; her manners
like her conversation, were odiously genteel. He remembered her insolence; sometimes he had
felt 561 of 1241 Of Human Bondage inclined to box her ears; and

suddenly, he knew not why, perhaps it was the thought of hitting her

or the recollection of her tiny, beautiful ears, he was seized by an

uprush of emotion. He yearned for her. He thought of taking her in

his arms, the thin, fragile body, and kissing her pale mouth: he wanted

to pass his fingers down the slightly greenish cheeks. He wanted her. He

had thought of love as a rapture which seized one so that all

the world seemed spring-like, he had looked forward to an ecstatic happiness; but
this was not happiness.’ it was a hunger of the soul, it was

a painful yearning, it was a bitter anguish, he had never known before.

He tried to think when it had first come to him. He did

not know. He only remembered that each time he had gone into the

shop, after the first two or three times, it had been with a

little feeling in the heart that was pain: and he remembered that when

she spoke to him he felt curiously breathless. when she left him it

was wretchedness, and when she came to him again it was despair. He
stretched himself in his bed as a dog stretches himself. He wondered how

he was going to endure that ceaseless aching of his soul. 56'? of

1241 Of Human Bondage LV999 Philip woke early next morning, and his first
thought was of Mildred. 9t struck him that he might meet her at

Victoria Station and walk with her to the shop. He shaved quickly, scrambled
into his clothes, and took a bus to the station. He was there

by twenty to eight and watched the incoming trains. Crowds poured out of
them, clerks and shop-people at that early hour, and thronged up the platform:
they hurried along, sometimes in pairs, here and there a group of girls,

but more often alone. They were white, most of them, ugly in the

early morning, and they had an abstracted look; the younger ones walked

