and this was his fetish. when his companion and he had fled to some prearranged retreat--already occupied, no doubt by a confederate--the companion had persuaded him to leave
so compromising an article of furniture. but the mulatto s heart was with it, and he was driven back to it next day, when, on reconnoitering through the

window, he found policeman walters in possession. he waited three days longer, and then his piety or his superstition drove him to try once more. inspector baynes, who,
with his usual astuteness, had minimized the incident before me, had really recognized its importance and had left a trap into which the creature walked. any other point,
watson?' 'the torn bird, the pail of blood, the charred bones, all the mystery of that weird kitchen?‘ holmes smiled as he turned up an entry in his

note-book, 'i spent a morning in the british museum reading up on that and other points. here is a quotation from eckermann s voodooism and the negroid religions:

' the true Voodoo-worshipper attempts nothing of importance without certain sacrifices which are intended to propitiate his unclean gods, in extreme cases these rites take the form of
human sacrifices followed by cannibalism. the more usual victims are a white cock, which is plucked in pieces alive, or a black goat, whose throat is cut and

body burned, ‘so you see our savage friend was very orthodox in his ritual. it is grotesque, Watson,’ holmes added, as he slowly fastened his notebook, 'but, as

i have had occasion to remark, there is but one step from the grotesque to the horrible.' mr. hungerton, her father, really was the most tactless person upon

earth,--a fluffy, feathery, untidy cockatoo of a man, perfectly good-natured, but absolutely centered upon his own silly self. if anything could have driven me from gladys, it would
have been the thought of such a father-in-law. i am convinced that he really believed in his heart that i came round to the chestnuts three days a

week for the pleasure of his company, and very especially to hear his views upon bimetallism, a sub/'ect upon which he was by way of being an authority.

for an hour or more that evening i listened to his monotonous chirrup about bad money driving out good, the token value of silver, the depreciation of the

rupee, and the true standards of exchange. 'suppose,' he cried with feeble violence, 'that all the debts in the world were called up simultaneously, and immediate payment insisted
upon,--what under our present conditions would happen then?’ i gave the self-evident answer that i should be a ruined man, upon which he jumped from his chair, reproved

me for my habitual levity, which made it impossible for him to discuss any reasonable subject in my presence, and bounced off out of the room to dress

for a masonic meeting. at last i was alone with gladys, and the moment of fate had come! all that evening i had felt like the soldier who

awaits the signal which will send him on a forlorn hope; hope of victory and fear of repulse alternating in his mind. she sat with that proud, delicate

profile of hers outlined against the red curtain. how beautiful she was! and yet how aloof! we had been friends, quite good friends; but never could i get

beyond the same comradeship which i might have established with one of my fellow-reporters upon the gazette,--perfectly frank, perfectly kindly, and perfectly unsexual. my instincts are all against
a woman being too frank and at her ease with me. it is no compliment to a man. where the real sex feeling begins, timidity and distrust are

its companions, heritage from old wicked days when love and violence went often hand in hand. the bent head, the averted eye, the faltering voice, the wincing figure--

these, and not the unshrinking gaze and frank reply, are the true signals of passion, even in my short life i had learned as much as that--or had

inherited it in that race memory which we call instinct. gladys was full of every womanly quality. some iudged her to be cold and hard; but such a

thought was treason. that delicately bronzed skin, almost oriental in its coloring, that raven hair, the large liquid eyes, the full but exquisite lips,--all the stigmata of passion
were there. but i was sadly conscious that up to now i had never found the secret of drawing it forth. however, come what might, i should have

done with suspense and bring matters to a head to-night. she could but refuse me, and better be a repulsed lover than an accepted brother. so far my

thoughts had carried me, and i was about to break the long and uneasy silence, when two critical, dark eyes looked round at me, and the proud head

was shaken in smiling reproof. 'i have a presentiment that you are going to propose, ned. i do wish you wouldn t; for things are so much nicer

as they are.’ i drew my chair a little nearer. ‘now, how did you know that i was going to propose?’ i asked in genuine wonder. 'don

