over the city, as to the splendor of our public and common life as compared with the simplicity of our

private and home life, and the contrast which, in this respect, the twentieth bears to the nineteenth century. to save
ourselves useless burdens, we have as little gear about us at home as is consistent with comfort, but the social

side of our life is ornate and luxurious beyond anything the world ever knew before. all the industrial and professional
guilds have clubhouses as extensive as this, as well as country, mountain, and seaside houses for sport and rest in
vacations.‘ note. in the latter part of the nineteenth century it became a practice of needy young men at some

of the colleges of the country to earn a little money for their term bills by serving as waiters on

tables at hotels during the long summer vacation. it was claimed, in reply to critics who expressed the preiudices of

the time in asserting that persons voluntarily following such an occupation could not be gentlemen, that they were entitled to
praise for vindicating, by their example, the dignity of all honest and necessary labor. the use of this argument illustrates
a common confusion in thought on the part of my former contemporaries. the business of waiting on tables was in

no more need of defense than most of the other ways of getting a living in that day, but to

talk of dignity attaching to labor of any sort under the system then prevailing was absurd. there is no way

in which selling labor for the highest price it will fetch is more dignified than selling goods for what can

be got. both were commercial transactions to be iudged by the commercial standard. by setting a price in money on

his service, the worker accepted the money measure for it, and renounced all clear claim to be judged by any

other. the sordid taint which this necessity imparted to the noblest and the highest sorts of service was bitterly resented
by generous souls, but there was no evading it, there was no exemption, however transcendent the quality of one s
service, from the necessity of haggling for its price in the market-place. the physician must sell his healing and the
apostle his preaching like the rest. the prophet, who had guessed the meaning of god, must dicker for the price

of the revelation, and the poet hawk his visions in printers row. if i were asked to name the most

distinguishing felicity of this age, as compared to that in which i first saw the light, i should say that

to me it seems to consist in the dignity you have given to labor by refusing to set a price

upon it and abolishing the market-place forever. by requiring of every man his best you have made god his task-meater,
and by making honor the sole reward of achievement you have imparted to all service the distinction peculiar in my
day to the soldier s. when, in the course of our tour of inspection, we came to the library, we

succumbed to the temptation of the luxurious leather chairs with which it was furnished, and sat down in one of

the book-lined alcoves to rest and chat awhile i cannot sufficiently celebrate the glorious liberty that reigns in the public
libraries of the twentieth century as compared with the intolerable management of those of the nineteenth century, in which the
books were iealously railed away from the people, and obtainable only at an expenditure of time and red tape calculated
to discourage any ordinary taste for literature. ‘edith tells me that you have been in the library all the morning,‘

said mrs. leete. ‘do you know, it seems to me, mr. west, that you are the most enviable of mortals.‘

‘i should like to know iust why,‘ i replied. ‘because the books of the last hundred years will be new

to you,‘ she answered. ‘you will have so much of the most absorbing literature to read as to leave you

scarcely time for meals these five years to come. ah, what would i give if i had not already read

berrian s novels.‘ ‘or nesmyth s, mamma,‘ added edith. ‘yes, or oates poems, or ‘past and present, or, 'in the

beginning, or--oh, i could name a dozen books, each worth a year of one s life,‘ declared mrs. leete, enthusiastically,

'i fudge, then, that there has been some notable literature produced in this century.‘ ‘yes,‘ said dr. leete. ‘it has

been an era of unexampled intellectual splendor. probably humanity never before passed through a moral and material evolution, at once
so vast in its scope and brief in its time of accomplishment, as that from the old order to the

new in the early part of this century. when men came to realize the greatness of the felicity which had

befallen them, and that the change through which they had passed was not merely an improvement in details of their
condition, but the rise of the race to a new plane of existence with an illimitable vista of progress, their

minds were affected in all their faculties with a stimulus, of which the outburst of the mediaeval renaissance offers a
suggestion but faint indeed. there ensued an era of mechanical invention, scientific discovery, art, musical and literary productiveness to which
no previous age of the world offers anything comparable.‘ ‘by the way,’ said i, ‘talking of literature, how are books
published now? is that also done by the nation?‘ ‘but how do you manage it? does the government publish everything
that is brought it as a matter of course, at the public expense, or does it exercise a censorship and

print only what it approves?‘ ‘neither way. the printing department has no censorial powers. it is bound to print all
that is offered it, but prints it only on condition that the author defray the first cost out of his

credit. he must pay for the privilege of the public ear, and if he has any message worth hearing

