and the rocks rent ." and the graves were opened ; and many bodies of the saints which slept arose,
and came out of the graves after his resurrection, and went into the holy city, and appeared unto many. Now
when the centurion, and they that were with him, watching Iesus, saw the earthquake, and those things that were done,
they feared greatly, saying, Truly this was the Son of God. And many women were there beholding afar off, which
followed Fesus from Galilee, ministering unto him : among which was Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of ﬂames and
ﬂoses, and the mother of Zebedee s children. The Burial of ﬂesus when the even was come, there came a
rich man of Arimathea, named ﬂoseph, who also himself was iesus disciple : he went to Pilate, and begged the
body of Fesus. Then Pilate commanded the body to be delivered. And when ﬂoseph had taken the body, he wrapped
it in a clean linen cloth, and laid it in his own new tomb, which he had hewn out in
the rock : and he rolled a great stone to the door of the sepulchre, and departed. And there was
Mary Magdalene, and the other Mary, sitting over against the sepulchre, 4.I 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 5I
58 5I 60 6I 20I4 Matthew 28 The Guard at the Tomb Now the next day, that followed the day
of the preparation, the chief priests and Pharisees came together unto Pilate, saying, Sir, we remember that that deceiver said,
while he was yet alive, After three days I will rise again. Command therefore that the sepulchre be made sure
until the third day, lest his disciples come by night, and steal him away, and say unto the people, He
is risen from the dead : so the last error shall be worse than the first. Pilate said unto them,
Ye have a watch : go your way, make it as sure as ye can. So they went, and made
the sepulchre sure, sealing the stone, and setting a watch. 28 The Resurrection In the end of the sabbath, as
it began to dawn toward the first day of the week, came Mary Magdalene and the other Mary to see
the sepulchre. And, behold, there was a great earthquake ." for the angel of the Lord descended from heaven, and
came and rolled back the stone from the door, and sat upon it. His countenance was like lightning, and his
raiment white as snow : and for fear of him the keepers did shake, and became as dead men. And
the angel answered and said unto the women, Fear not ye : for I know that ye seek Fesus, which
was crucified. He is not here ." for he is risen, as he said. Come, see the place where the
Lord lay. And go quickly, and tell his disciples that he is risen from the dead ; and, behold, he
goeth before you into Galilee ; there shall ye see him : lo, I have told you. 62 63 64
65 66 1 2 3 4 5 6 I 20I5 Matthew 28 And they departed quickly from the sepulchre with
fear and great ioy ; and did run to bring his disciples word. And as they went to tell his
disciples, behold, ﬂesus met them, saying, All hail. And they came and held him by the feet, and worshipped him.
Then said ﬁesus unto them, 8e not afraid ." go tell my brethren that they go into Galilee, and there
shall they see me. The Report of the Guard Now when they were going, behold, some of the watch came
into the city, and showed unto the chief priests all the things that were done. And when they were assembled
with the elders, and had taken counsel, they gave large money unto the soldiers, saying, Say ye, His disciples came
by night, and stole him away while we slept. And if this come to the governor s ears, we will
persuade him, and secure you. So they took the money, and did as they were taught : and this saying
is commonly reported among the ﬁews until this day. Fesus Commissions the Eleven Then the eleven disciples went away into
Galilee, into a mountain where ilesus had appointed them. And when they saw him, they worshipped him : but some
doubted. And ﬂesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth.
Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and
of the Holy Ghost : teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you : and, lo, I
am with you alway, even unto the end of the world. Amen. 8 I 10 11 12 13 14 15
16 1I 18 1I 20 The Gospel according to St. Mark ;Mark] I The Preaching of Fohn the Baptist The
beginning of the gospel of Iesus Christ, the Son o God. As it is written in the prophets, 8ehold, I
send my messenger before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee. The voice of one crying in the
wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his paths straight. ﬂohn did baptize in the wilderness, and preach
the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins. And there went out unto him all the land of Iudea,
and they of ﬂerusalem, and were all baptized of him in the river of Fordan, confessing their sins, And élohn
was clothed with camel s hair, and with a girdle of a skin about his loins ; and he did
eat locusts and wild honey ," and preached, saying, There cometh one mightier than I after me, the latchet of
whose shoes I am not worthy to stoop down and unloose. I indeed have baptized you with water : but
he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost. The Baptism of iesus And it came to pass in those days,
that ﬂesus came from Nazareth of Galilee, and was baptized of Fohn in ﬂordan. And straightway coming up out of
the water, he saw the heavens opened, and the Spirit like a dove descending upon him ." 1 2 3
4 5 6 I 8 I 10 20II Mark 1 and there came a voice from heaven, saying, Thou art
my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. The Temptation of Fesus And immediately the Spirit driveth him into
the wilderness. And he was there in the wilderness forty days tempted of Satan ." and was with the
