that s just how much we want. if You have to communicate with us, address t. l. meredith, box 11I.
better send your looter in cipher. here s a little code i worked out that we sometimes use. well, so-long.
good hunting, lieutenant." fraser nodded farewell, but did not offer to shake hands. brandt lingered for an instant. "don t
make any mistake, fraser, about this rob you ve bit off. it s a big one, and don t you
forget it. people are sore on me because i have fallen down on it. i can t help it. i
just can t get the evidence. if you tackle it, you ll be in danger from start to finish. there
are some bad men in this country, and the worst of them are lying low in lost valley." the ranger
smiled amiably. "where is this lost valley?" "somewhere up in the cedar mountain district. i ve never been there. few
men have, for it is not easy to find." and even if it were strangers are not invited." "well, i
ll have to invite myself." "that s all right. but remember this. there are men up there who would drill
holes in a dying man. i guess lost valley is the country god forgot." "sounds right interesting." "you ll find
it all that, and don t forget that if they find out what you are doing there, it will be
god help steve fraser!" the ranger s eyes gleamed. "i ll try to remember it." it was one-twenty when fraser
slipped the iron bar from the masonry into which it had been fixed and began to lower himself from the
window. the back of the fail faced on the bank of a creek; and into the aspens, which ran along
it at this point in a little grove, the fugitive pushed his way. he descended to the creek edge and
crossed the mountain stream on bowlders which filled its bed. from here he followed the trail for a hundred yards
that led up the little river. on the Way he passed a boy fishing and nodded a greeting to him,
"what time is it, mister?" the Y%ungster asked. a glance at his watch showed the texan that it was one-twenty-five.
"the fish have quit biting. blame it all, i m going home. say, mister, iimmie spence says they re going
to lynch that fellow who killed billy faulkneru going to hang him to-night, iimmie says, do you reckon they will?"
"no, i reckon not." "tha s what i told him, but iimmie says he heard tom peake say so. iimmie
says this town will be full 0 folks by night." without waiting to hear any more of iimmie s prophecies,
fraser followed the trail till it reached a waterfall brandt bad mentioned, then struck sharply to the right. in a
little bunch of scrub oaks he found a saddled horse tied to a sapling. his instructions were to cross the
road, which ran parallel with the stream, and follow the gulch that led to the river. half an hour s
travel brought him to another road. into this he turned, and followed it. in a desperate hurry though he was,
steve dared not show it. he held his piebald broncho to the ambling trot a cowpony naturally drops into. from
his coat pocket he flashed a mouthharp for use in emergency. presently he met three men riding into town. they
nodded at him, in the friendly, casual way of the outdoors west. the gait of the pony was a leisurely
walk, and its rider was industriously executing, "i met my love in the alamo." "going the wrong way, aren t
you?" one of the three suggested. "don t you worry, i ll be there when y u hang that guy
they caught last night," he told them with a grin. from time to time he met others. all travel seemed
to be headed townward. there was excitement in the air. in the clear atmosphere voices carried a long way, and
all the conversation that came to him was on the subiects of the war for the range, the battle of
the previous evening, and the lynching scheduled to take place in a few hours. he realized that he had escaped
none too soon, for it was certain that as the crowd in town multiplied, they would set a watch on
the fail to prevent brandt from slipping out with his prisoner. about four miles from town he cut the telephone
wires, for he knew that as soon as his escape became known to the iailer, the sheriff would be notified,
and he would telephone in even direction the escape of his prisoner, /"ust the same as if there had been
no arrangement between them. it was certain, too, that all the roads leading from gimlet butte would be followed and
patrolled immediately. for which reason he left the road after cutting the wires, and took to the hill trail marked
out for him in the map furnished by brandt. by night, he was far up in the foothills. close to
a running stream, he camped in a little, grassy park, where his pony could find forage. brandt had stuffed his
saddlebags with food, and had tied behind a sack, with a feed or two of oats for his horse. fraser
had ridden the range too many years to risk lighting a fire, even though he had put thirty-five miles between
him and gimlet butte. the night was chill, as it always is in that altitude, but he rolled up in
his blanket, got what sleep he could, and was off again by daybreak. before noon he was high in the
mountain passes, from which he could sometimes look down into the green parks where nested the little ranches of small
cattlemen, he knew now that he was beyond the danger of the first hurried pursuit, and that it was more
than likely that any of these mountaineers would hide him rather than give him up. nevertheless, he had no
