are its powers indescribably vast. As you go on forgetting yourself, just in the same proportion do spiritual peace and
spiritual powers flow towards you. when one consciously suppresses individuality by proper physical, mental moral and spiritual development he becomes
part and parcel of the immutable course of nature and never suffers. This fourfold development and spiritual peace have been
considered the end of philosophy. In India there have been six such schools of thought. Each starts with a more
or less rational demonstration of the universe and ends with a sublime code of ethics. There are first the atomic
Vaisheshika and the dialectic Naya schools seeking mental peace in devotion to the ruler of the universe. Then there are
the materialist Sankhya and the practical Yoga schools teaching mental peace by proper analysis and practical training. Lastly there are
the orthodox Mimamsa and the Unitarian Advaita schools, placing spiritual bliss in strict observance of Vedic injunction and in realizing
the unity of the Cosmos. "It will thus be seen that Yoga is a complement of the Sankhya. 2. "I
told you last time when we met that the Sankhya philosophy starts with the proposition that the world is full
of miseries of three kinds physical, supernatural and corporeal and that these are the results of the properties of matter
and not of its correlate intelligence of consciousness, that out of the primordial essence Prakriti comes out the whole universe,
by reason of the predominance of one or other of the three qualities of Sativa, Rajas and Tams passivity, activity,
all grossness, darkness, ignorance of Tams, all pleasure, passivity, knowledge, peace of Sativa, The mind is a result of Rajas
_ and it is Sativa alone which by its light illumines it and enables it at times to catch glimpses
of the blissful Purush ever near to the Sativa 2. As mind or the thinking principal plays an important part
in the Sankhya and more so in the Yoga philosophy, for its chief article is Stop the transformation of the
thinking principal and you will realize the Self , we will come to a consideration of the mind. 3. with
the philosophers of the west, mind and soul are synonyms. The popular definition is mind is the intellectual power in
man. "In the East there is a difference of opinion on this subject among the several philosophers. The followers of
the Naya philosophy hold that all bodies having a form are impermanent but the mind being formless is permanent; it
has special attributes and is likewise subtle; hence it is unable to grasp two objects at the same time. The
Sankhya philosophy however of which Yoga is the complement considers the mind to be a derivative product. Till the Purush
soul is emancipated from Prakriti the mind continues in a state of integrity. Its span of duration is limited to
a Mahapralaya the great Deluges when it disintegrates to be taken up by Prakriti. The seat of the mind has
been the subject of an able discussion amongst the ancient philosophers. The followers of the Puranas and the Tantrums fix
it in the forehead near the junction of the two eye brows. The anatomical description would incline us to look
upon the optic thalamus as the center of the mind. The Vedanta s hold the mind to be situated in
the heart, for they say when an individual thinks of a subject he keeps it next to his heart as
in the act of worshipping. There are some philosophers who identify the mind with the soul but ksapila refutes their
views. He says: "if mind and soul were one and the same, one would say "I am the mind instead
of my mind, my hands . According to him all experience consists of mental representation, the Satva being clouded, obscured
or entirely covered over by the nature or property of representation. This is the root of evil. The act of
the mind cognizing objects or, technically, taking the shape of objects presented to it is called Verity or transformation, Vt
is the Verity which being colored by the presentation imparts the same color by representation to Satva and causes evil,
misery, ignorance and the like. All objects are made of three Gun. or qualities and when the Verity or the
transformation of the thinking principal sees everywhere nothing but the Sativa to the exclusion of the other two, presentation and
representation become purely Satvik passive and the internal Sativa of the cognize realizes itself everywhere and in everything. In the
clear mirror of the Sativa is reflected the bright and blissful image of the ever present Purush who is beyond
change, and supreme bliss follows. This state is called Sativapati or Moksa or i<evalya4. For every Purush who has thus
realized itself Prakriti has ceased to exist, in other words, has ceased to cause disturbance and misery. The course of
nature never ceases but one who receives knowledge remains happy throughout by understanding the truth. The Sankhya tries to arrive
at this result by a strict mode of life accompanied with analysis and contemplation. This state of peace besides being
conducive to eternal calm and happiness is most favorable to the apprehension of the truths of nature. That intuitive knowledge,
which is called Tarka, puts the students in possession of almost every kind of knowledge he applies himself to. "it
is indeed this fact on which the so called powers of Yoga are based, 4, The Yoga philosophy subscribes to
this Sankhya theory in toto. "it however appears to hold that Purush Soul by himself cannot easily acquire that Satvik
development which leads to knowledge and bliss. A particular kind of Eashwar or Supreme God is therefore added for the
purposes of contemplation etc. to the twenty five categories of the Sankhya. This circumstance has obtained for Yoga the name
of Saishvar Sankhya or theistic Sankhya as the Sankhya proper is called nireashwar Sankhya or atheistic Sankhya. 5. The second
and really important improvement on the Sankhya consists in the highly practical character of the rules laid down for acquiring
eternal bliss and knowledge. The end proposed by the Yoga philosophy is Samadhi leading to kaivalya. Yoga and Samadhi are
convertible terms, either meaning Vritinirodh or suspension of the transformations of the thinking principal.5 6. with this introduction we will
enter into the details of this philosophy. we have defined Yoga to be the suppression of the transformation of the
thinking principal. "what is the thinking principal and what are its transformations and what results are achieved by the practice
of Yoga? As to its power it teaches that the powers of electricity and magnetism are but a drop
