s a liar born, and he ll die a liar.
Look at his face." ain t it written there." Let
him turn those eyes of his on me. I defy
him to do it. The other, with an effort at
a scornful smile - which could not, however, collect the
nervous working of his mouth into any set expression -
looked at the soldiers, and looked about at the marshes
and at the sky, but certainly did not look at
the speaker. Do you see him? pursued my convict. Do
you see what a villain he is? Do you see
those grovelling and wandering eyes." That s how he looked
when we were tried together. He never looked at me.
The other, always working and working his dry lips and
turning his eyes restlessly about him far and near, did
63 of 865 Great Expectations at last turn them for
a moment on the speaker, with the words, You are
not much to look at, and with a half- taunting
glance at the bound hands. At that point, my convict
became so frantically exasperated, that he would have rushed upon
him but for the interposition of the soldiers. Didn t
I tell you, said the other convict then, that he
would murder me, if he could? And any one could
see that he shook with fear, and that there broke
out upon his lips, curious white flakes, like thin snow.
Enough of this parley, said the sergeant. Light those torches.
As one of the soldiers, who carried a basket in
lieu of a gun, went down on his knee to
open it, my convict looked round him for the first
time, and saw me. I had alighted from Poe s
back on the brink of the ditch when we came
up, and had not moved since. I looked at him
eagerly when he looked at me, and slightly moved my
hands and shook my head. I had been waiting for
him to see me, that I might try to assure
him of my innocence. It was not at all expressed
to me that he even comprehended my intention, for he
gave me a look that I did not understand, and
it all passed in a moment. But if he had
looked at me for an hour or for a day,
I could not have 64 of 865 Great Expectations remembered
his face ever afterwards, as having been more attentive. The
soldier with the basket soon got a light, and lighted
three or four torches, and took one himself and distributed
the others. It had been almost dark before, but now
it seemed quite dark, and soon afterwards very dark. Before
we departed from that spot, four soldiers standing in a
ring, fired twice into the air. Presently we saw other
torches kindled at some distance behind us, and others on
the marshes on the opposite bank of the river. All
right, said the sef!@ant. March. we had not gone far
when three cannon were fired ahead of us with a
sound that seemed to burst something inside my ear. You
are expected on board, said the sergeant to my convict:
they know you are coming. Don t straggle, my man.
Close up here. The two were kept apart, and each
walked surrounded by a separate guard. I had hold
