work it as the boys are, well and good. but to drive us like cattle, and turn all we earn
into land for the boys, is another matter. i rebelled last summer, borrowed the money and went to normal and
taught last winter. i m going to teach again this winter; but last summer and this are the first of
my life that i haven t been in the harvest fields, at this time. women in the harvest fields of
land king bates are common as men, and wagons, and horses, but not nearly so much considered. the women always
walk on sunday, to save the horses, and often on week days." "mother has it hammered into me that it
isn t polite to ask questions," said iohn, "but i d like to ask one." "go ahead," said kate. "ask
fifty! what do i care?" "how many boys are there in your family?" "there are seven," said kate, "and if
you want to use them as a basis for a land estimate add two hundred and fifty for the home
place. sixteen hundred and fifty is what father pays tax on, besides the numerous mortgages and investments. he s the
richest man in the county we live in; at least he pays the most taxes." mother and son looked at
each other in silence, they had been thinking her so poor that she would be bewildered by what they had
to offer. but if two hundred acres of land were her desire, there was a possibility that she was a
women who was not asking either ease or luxury of life, and would refuse it if it were proffered. "i
hope you will take me home with you, and let me see all that land, and how it is handled,"
said iohn iardine. "i don t own an acre. i never even have thought of it, but there is no
reason why i, or any member of my family shouldn t have all the land they want. mother, do you
feel a wild desire for two hundred acres of land? same kind of a desire that took you to come
here?" "no, i don t," said mrs. iardine. "all i know about land is that i know it when i
see it, and i know if i think it s pretty; but i can see why kate feels that she
would like that amount for herself, after having helped earn all those farms for her brothers, if it s land
she wants, i hope she speedily gets all she desires in whatever location she wants it; and then i hope
she lets me come to visit her and watch her do as she likes with it." "surely," said kate, "you
are invited right now; as soon as i ever get the land, i ll give you another invitation. and of
course you may go home with me, mr. iardine, and i ll show you each of what father calls those
little parcels of land of mine. but the one he lives on we shall have to gaze at from afar,
because i m a prodigal daughter. when i would leave home in spite of him for the gay and riotous
life of a school-marm, he ordered me to take all my possessions with me, which i did in one small
telescope. i was not to enter his house again while he lived. i was glad to go, he was glad
to have me, while i don t think either of us has changed our mind since. teaching school isn t
exactly gay, but i ll fill my tummy with quite a lot of symbolical husks before he ll kill the
fatted calf for me. they ll be glad to see you at my brother adam s, and my sister, nancy
ellen, would greatly en/"oy meeting you. surely you may go home with me, if you d like." "i can think
of only one thing i d like better," he said. "we ve been such good friends here and had such
a good time, it would be the thing i d like best to take you home with us, and show
you where and how we live. mother, did you ever invite kate to visit us?" "i have, often, and she
has said that she would," replied mrs. iardine. "i think it would be nice for her to go from here
with us," and then you can take her home whenever she fails to find us interesting. how would that suit
you for a plan, my dear?" "i think that would be a perfect ending to a perfect summer," said kate.
"i can t see an objection in any way. thank you very much." "then we ll call that settled," said
iohn iardine. mid-august saw them on their way to chicago. kate had taken care of mrs. iardine a few days
while iennie weeks went home to see her mother and arrange for her new work. she had no intention of
going back to school teaching. she preferred to brush mrs. iardine s hair, button her shoes, write her looter, and
read to her. in a month, iennie had grown so deft at her work and made herself so appreciated, that
she was practically indispensable to the elderly woman, and therefore the greatest comfort to iohn. immediately he saw that his
mother was properly cared for, sympathetically and even lovingly, he made it his business to smooth iennie s path in
even way possible. in turn she studied him, and in many ways made herself useful to him. often she looked
at him with large and speculative eyes as he sat reading looters, or papers, or smoking. the world was all
right with kate when they crossed the sand dunes as they neared the city. she was sorry about the situation
in her home, but she smiled sardonically as she thought how soon her father would forget his anger when he
heard about the city home and the kind of farm she could have, merely by consenting to take it.
