service of gift : and the stranger that cometh nigh shall be put to death. And the Lord spake unto

Aaron, Behold, ? also have given thee the charge of mine heave offerings of all the hallowed things of the

children of Vsrael ,' unto thee have 7 given them by reason of the anointing, and to thy sons, by

an ordinance for ever. This shall be thine of the most holy things, reserved from the fire : every oblation

of theirs, every meat offering of theirs, and every sin offering of theirs, and every trespass offering of theirs, which
they shall render unto me, shall be most holy for thee and for thy sons. ‘in the most holy place

shalt thou eat it .’ every male shall eat it : it shall be holy unto thee. And this is

thine ; the heave offering of their gift, with all the wave offerings of the children of ‘israel .' 9

have given them unto thee, and to thy sons and to thy daughters with thee, by a statute for ever

: every one that is clean in thy house shall eat of it. All the best of the oil, and

all the best of the wine, and of the wheat, the firstfruits of them which they shall offer unto the

Lord, them have ‘7 given thee. And whatsoever is first ripe in the land, which they shall bring unto the

Lord, shall be thine I every one that is clean in thine house shall eat of it. Every thing devoted

in ‘Israel shall be thine. Every thing that openeth the matrix in all flesh, which they bring unto the Lord,

whether it be of men or beasts, shall be thine : nevertheless the firstborn of man shalt thou surely redeem,

and the firstling of unclean beasts shalt thou redeem. 5 6 7 8 9 10 17 72 13 14 15

355 Numbers 18 And those that are to be redeemed from a month old shalt thou redeem, according to thine
estimation, for the money of five shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary, which is twenty gerahs. But the firstling
of a cow, or the firstling of a sheep, or the firstling of a goat, thou shalt not redeem ,'

they are holy : thou shalt sprinkle their blood upon the altar, and shalt burn their fat for an offering

made by fire, for a sweet savor unto the Lord. And the flesh of them shall be thine, as the

wave breast and as the right shoulder are thine. All the heave offerings of the holy things, which the children

of ‘7srael offer unto the Lord, have ‘7 given thee, and thy sons and thy daughters with thee, by a

statute for ever : it is a covenant of salt for ever before the Lord unto thee and to thy

seed with thee. And the Lord spake unto Aaron, Thou shalt have no inheritance in their land, neither shalt thou
have any part among them .' 9 am thy part and thine inheritance among the children of 9srael. And, behold,

9 have given the children of Levi all the tenth in ‘Israel for an inheritance, for their service which they

serve, even the service of the tabernacle of the congregation. Neither must the children of 9srael henceforth come nigh the
tabernacle of the congregation, lest they bear sin, and die, 8ut the Levites shall do the service of the tabernacle

of the congregation, and they Shall bear their iniquity .' it shall be a statute for ever throughout your generations,
that among the children of ‘israel they have no inheritance, But the tithes of the children of ‘israel, which they
offer as a heave offering unto the Lord, ¢ have given to the Levites to inherit : therefore ‘7 have

said unto them, Among the children of ‘israel they shall have no inheritance. And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying,
Thus speak unto the Levites, and say unto them, when ye take of the children of ‘israel the tithes which

7 have given you from them for your inheritance, then ye shall offer up a heave offering of it for

the Lord, even a tenth part of the tithe. 3'6 17 18 79 20 23' 22 23 24 25 26

356 Numbers 79 And this your heave offering shall be reckoned unto you, as though it were the corn of

the threshingfloor, and as the fulness of the winepress. Thus ye also shall offer a heave offering unto the Lord
of all your tithes, which ye receive of the children of 9srael ; and ye shall give thereof the Lord

s heave offering to Aaron the priest. Out of all your gifts ye shall offer every heave offering of the

Lord, of all the best thereof, even the hallowed part thereof out of it. Therefore thou shalt say unto them,

when ye have heaved the best thereof from it, then it shall be counted unto the Levites as the increase

of the threshingfloor, and as the increase of the winepress. And ye shall eat it in every place, ye and

your households .' for it is your reward for your service in the tabernacle of the congregation, And ye shall

bear no sin by reason of it, when ye have heaved from it the best of it : neither shall

ye pollute the holy things of the children of ‘7srael, lest ye die, 1.9 The Purification of the Unclean And

the Lord spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying, This is the ordinance of the law which the Lord hath
commanded, saying, Speak unto the children of ‘7srael, that they bring thee a red heifer without spot, wherein is no
blemish, and upon which never came yoke. And ye shall give her unto Eleazar the priest, that he may bring

her forth without the camp, and one shall slay her before his face : and Eleazar the priest shall take

of her blood with his finger, and sprinkle of her blood directly before the tabernacle of the congregation seven times,
And one shall burn the heifer in his sight ,' her skin, and her flesh, and her blood, with her

dung, shall he burn : and the priest shall take cedar wood, and hyssop, and scarlet, and cast it into

the midst of the burning of the heifer. 27 28 29 30 31 32 1 2 3 4 5 6

357 Numbers 79 Then the priest shall wash his clothes, and he shall bathe his flesh in water, and afterward

he shall come into the camp, and the priest shall be unclean until the even. And he that burneth

