us has this quest. That is why we are called aspirants, or sadhaka, meaning not complacent. we want each step
to find us farther than the last. The dream you had ten years ago may have been realized by now.
You find that you want something more. You want to go further. This "more" is the nature of that upward-moving
element. wherever you go and whatever you receive, that "more" is there. It will remain till the last, till you
reach the best. You have not reached the height yet; that is why that longing is there. So meditate on
suchi and ask yourself, "what is moving upward in me? what is the pure, unique essence of life? Let me
not confuse that with other elements which are composing and decomposing." Investigate, "what is the quality of my thoughts and
emotions? what is the frequency of my Vibrations? Are they lifting me up or taking me down? Are they increasing
the heaviness in me, or are they focused on revealing my light?" It is very important to have a sense
of discrimination to differentiate between these two. without this discriminating sense, we run the risk of identifying our pure essence
with the matter-laden coverings weighing it down. without the light of awareness, the mind deludes us. That is the influence
of the hypnotic spell. we allow ourselves to live without the experience of who we really are. This is self-
deception. There is no outside deceiver who can fool you more than your own inaccurate thinking you may think, "I
have everything. I can buy any thing I want. I am happy." But unexpectedly sorrow creeps in and all of
a sudden your mood is depressed. So we take a little time to investigate our inertia, the heaviness which does
not allow us to move. we see clearly what is covered with shadow, sorrow, and heavy desires. Otherwise, the negative
vibrations which are the substance of those gravitating tendencies in us will continue to attract karmas or particles of matter
to us and obscure our vision. As long as we allow our thoughts to run wild and unchecked, our mind
will be subjected to the continuing influx of these undesirable elements. Rather than suppress your thoughts, watch them. Do you
want to overcome sorrow and guilt? Then observe the way in which sorrow works. Notice how it has a way
of waiting in the corner a little distance away and then how it tackles you all of a sudden without
giving you a chance to think. Your discriminatory sense itself tends to get covered. One minute you were blossoming with
a smile, the next minute you are sad and morose. what has happened? where has your happiness gone? where was
this depressed mood waiting? It was waiting in the mind. Once sorrow invades you, you have no strength to overcome
it. You sink lower and lower. You might have noticed that when you are under the clouds of sadness, even
if you recite a mantra and pray, you are sometimes not able to lift yourself out of that feeling. In
those moments, where is all the wisdom? It remains in a corner. Though our heads are filled with a lot
of quotations, do we use them when we are under the influence of sorrow? we do not. Though we have
read books on how to be happy, do they help us? Apparently not. It seems that we are only able
to use their wisdom when we are in a good mood. It is most important that we learn to call
upon our knowledge and insights to sustain us when we are in a low state. we must remember them, call
them forth, and put them to use. why don t we use our knowledge? Because intellectual information and emotional feeling
work in different directions. For example, intellectually we know that anyone who comes into our life is eventually going to
go. we are aware that all are on a Journey, coming and going, but when that event happens in our
life, how do we take it? Intellectually we understand, but emotionally what is our reaction? Meditation helps us bring that
knowledge into our feeling. Experiencing our feeling, we change our perception. Changing our perception, we become ready to meet any
challenge. Nothing comes as a shock or a surprise. Understanding has been absorbed into our experience . The wise person
lives in the world, but not of it. He lies with complete awareness. There is a Zen story which illustrates
this. Once there was a famous swordsman who was on his deathbed when his son asked him, "what is your
last wish, father?" His father answered, "Oh, Mataiura, my son, I had a dream to see you become the greatest
of swordsmen, but I failed." Mataiura told him, "And I also wanted to become that, but the right teacher could
not be found, and you also had no time to teach me." Then his father said, "This wish is so
strong that I am going to live three more years to see that it is fulfilled. Though I am on
my deathbed, I shall not die." So his son asked, "who shall be my teacher?" His father sent him to
Banzo, who was known to be the master at that time. The boy went to 8anzo and bowed and said,
"I want to study with you and become a skilled swordsman. I am willing to devote myself completely to this
task. How long will it take for me to master the art" The master answered, "Twelve years." "Twelve years?" The
boy was incredulous. "Suppose I use every moment of my day and allow for only three hours sleep, then how
long will it take?" "Then it may take twenty years!" The boy did not understand . So the master explained,
"One who is in haste and keeps his eye only on the result and not on the process gets no
result. I teach not for result but for life. Master swordsmanship means to be vigilant, to know how not to
kill and yet how to protect oneself. You must know that in the sword there is no friendly edge. If
I teach only for result, you will be sliced. what for? I care more for the welfare of your life."
Now the boy understood. He told the master, "Sir, I drop the idea of timing. I request that you accept
me as your student. I will become a vessel to receive wisdom from you." From that day, he was accepted
as the master s student Now that his mind was calm, he was to receive a special training in
