not control his laughter seeing this strange activity. ﬂokingly he said, "O abode of insects! what do you think you
are doing." You are gathering insects and considering this act to be a penance." The hermit remained calm the first
time, But when Gaushalak did not refrain from making biting remarks, the hermit looked at him with his burning eyes
and said, "O vicious person! My name is Vaisyayan Tapas and I am the doom of ignorant fools like you."
Instead of iolting him to sanity, this scornful comment drew an insulting laughter from Gaushalak. The hermit now took a
few steps back and angrily started emitting fire from his mouth (this is a miraculous power called Teioleshya, acquired through
long and harsh penance}. within no time, a ball of fire rushed towards Gaushalak, who retreated with fear and ran
to Mahavir shouting in panic, "Sire! Save me. This Tapas will burn me." Reaching Mahavir, Gaushalak fell at his feet.
Hearing the pathetic call of Gaushalak, Mahavir was moved. Turning back he saw the approaching fire ball. From the compassionate
heart of Shraman Mahavir flowed a spontaneous stream of cool pacifying energy. when the nectar-glance of Mahavir fell on the
fire-ball, it subsided. The angry hermit was astonished to see his fire-ball extinguished. He recognized Mahavir as a much greater
and more benevolent power than he, and said, "Pardon me, O embodiment of benevolence! I did not know that this
man was your disciple." Gaushalak was saved from his imminent death. Gaushalak was relieved. He asked, "Sire! what does this
abode of insects say?" Mahavir replied, "He was just going to turn you to ashes with his fire-power, You were
saved by me by my pacifying power. Do not disturb anyone in the future." AFFLIc"TIONS BY KATAPUTNA It was an
incident from the sixth year of the period of spiritual practices of Shraman Mahavir. It was the month of Magh,
the peak of winter season. Chilling and biting winds were blowing. During the quiet part of the night in a
lonely iungle, Mahavir was standing in meditation. All of a sudden, a witch named iéataputna came there. Seeing Mahavir deep
in meditation she became angry for no apparent reason. But there is nothing that happens without reason. There must certainly
been some antagonism from some previous birth. As soon as the feeling surfaced, kiataputna lost her reason, and, in order
to take her revenge of some forgotten deed from some past life, she started torturing Mahavir. She took the form
of a giant and ominous looking Parivraiak with long strands of hair, Filling ice cold water in her braided hair
she sprayed that freezing water on Mahavir. The atmosphere was filled with the moaning sound of icy winds and demonic
laughter of the witch. It Was a horrific scene. Mahavir, elevated completely into a higher spiritual realm, remained unmoved and
serene. At last the witch accepted her defeat. She bowed to the feet of Shraman Mahavir and left. As a
result of his total absorption in the self and his high purity of soul, Mahavir acquired the special mental powers
of perceiving the whole physical world at will. IN THE PRISON During the sixth year of his practices, Mahavir one
day went to the téupiya village in the state of Videh, east of Vaishali. The village guards caught him and,
taking him to be a spy, put him in prison. There were two female mendicants in the village, when they,
Viiay and Pragalbh, heard that a spy disguised as a nude ascetic had been apprehended, they came to see him.
Shraman Mahavir, tied up, was standing in meditation in the prison. The mendicants recognized him and became sad, They approached
the guards and said, "You call yourself guardians of the state and people and you fail to distinguish a thief
from a honest citizen. You do not find any difference between a Shraman and a smuggler. For your information, you
are torturing Shraman Vardhaman, the ascetic son of king Siddharth. Have you no fear of the wrath of the gods?"
with this revelation the soldiers started trembling. They, at once, released Mahavir and sought his forgiveness. Shraman Mahavir just raised
his palm a gesture of pardon and assurance and left for some other solitary place. DEADLY TORTURE BY SANGAM One
day Shraman Mahavir was doing a special one night meditation in the Polash temple in Pedhal garden outside the Pedhal
village. In this practice one makes his body, mind, psyche and soul absolutely still and tranquil. Observing the high degree
of engrossment in meditation, Indra exclaimed, "You are great, Prabhu Vardhaman! Today you have no equal as an ascetic and
serene, brave, and equanimous spiritualist." Sangam, a god in Indra s assembly, was peeved at this praise of a moral
being. He retorted, "If Devrai promises not to interfere, I can disturb the concentration of Mahavir. It is a child
s play for me." Indra remained silent, through unwillingly. Considering it to be affirmative, Sangam, with all his cunning and
power came to Polash temple. One after another he crated twenty almost fatal predicaments to disturb Mahavir s meditation. He
created a terrible sand storm an in no time Mahavir was submerged in a heap of sand. Mahavir, in his
unshakable determination did not even close his eyes. As soon as the storm stopped, arrived a swarm of ants. Mahavir
s body was covered with biting and stinging ants, but he remained still. After this, innumerable mosquito s attacked Mahavir
s body. After mosquitoes, came an attack by white ants turning him into a termite-hill. Scorpions crawled over his body
and pierced it with poisonous stings. This was followed by biting mongoose, large cobras, and giant field rats. After all
this, appeared a white elephant that goaded Mahavir with its large pointed tusks. This elephant than lifted Mahavir in its
trunks and tossed him up. when Mahavir fell on the ground, it crushed him with its legs. This was followed
by an attack by an ominous looking ghost. Then a tiger attacked and gored Mahavir with its sharp talons. when
all these painful afflictions failed to disturb Mahavir s meditation, Sangam took a different approach. He created a realistic illusion
of Siddharth and Trishla weeping and Wailing profusely. But this too could not penetrate Mahavir s iron resolve. Sangam then
lit a fire almost touching Mahavir s feet and started cooking. After this he took the form of a bird
catcher and hung a number of cages on Mahavir. The birds attacked Mahavir with their beaks and talons through the
gaps in the cages. Blood oozed from these new wounds. Then came a storm, torrential rain, and hail-storm. Nothing
