i told those ohure detectives everything i know. which isn t much by the way - say can i get
you something to drink, coffee or ice water or something like that - tiffany, have you offered mr. wright anything
yet?" the girl, tiffany, shook her head while henry took a breath on mrs. murphy s behalf; it was amazing
how this short petite woman could manage such a stream of words and activity without seeming to pause in-between for
a breath. "what would you like?" tiffany, the teenager at the desk smiled her silvery smile. "coffee, black, please." henry
smiled back at the girl, he felt as though he was going to need an infusion of caffeine to keep
up with mrs. murphy. "bring it in to the conference room tiffany" mrs. murphy said to the girl as she
turned on her heel and started walking rapidly, almost fogging towards the back of the office. "this way, mr. wright,"
she said over her shoulder as she turned down an aisle into the maze of cubicles. henry was amazed at
how someone that short, she had to be all of five feet tall, even with those high heels she was
wearing, could cover so much ground so quickly. henry took several quick large steps across the carpet to catch up
with her. she walked down several aisles in the maze of cubicles with desks built in and stacks of papers
and files on every desk. phones were ringing noisily and the office seemed to be a beehive of activity. he
caught up with mrs. murphy just as she disappeared through a conference room door. henry stepped into the conference room
and sat down into one of the large leather chairs that surrounded a huge cherry wood conference table. the room
was not real large," the table filled it and didn t leave much space to walk around, the beautiful table
and the big black chairs gave the room an elegant, plush feeling. the walls of the room were lined with
professional photographs of large estates in the palm springs area. the picture directly behind henry was bob hope s futuristic
looking space ship house that was perched on a hilltop not too far from the real estate office. mrs. murphy
noticed henry looking around and said, "the pictures are some of the homes and estates where our office has been
involved in the transaction." "oh, very impressive!" henry said, "i didn t realize the hope estate had been sold." mrs.
murphy looked a little uncomfortable at henry s question and said "well, it really hasn t, but we re hoping
that now that the great man is gone - god rest his soul - that the hope family will consider
our office when they decide what to do with the place - and i think it does make for a
neat addition to our picture wall doesn t it. oh, where is that tiffany with your drink - i d
better check on her." as mrs. murphy picked up the phone, there was a knock on the door and tiffany
opened it to place a large white ceramic mug with the coachella real estate logo on it filled with hot
black coffee on the table. "thank you dear, that s all." mrs. murphy said, as she waved her hand dismissing
the teenager and sentencing her back to the front desk with her phone, magazine and nail file. "now, mr. wright,
you are here to ask me about rex, mr. thornbird i mean, though i cannot possibly imagine what i can
tell you that isn t already in the report that the ohure detectives took, why they had a tape recorder
and everything, they were very interested in what i had to say - though i must say i don t
know a soul who would want to harm rrr, rrr, mr. thornbird. he s the best agent this office has
ever had, and the nicest man as well." henry picked up his coffee cup, took a slow sip of the
hot coffee and asked, "can i call you rosie, mrs. murphy?" "well of course mr. wright, everyone in the office
calls me rosie, my real name is rosalyn, but that is so old-fashioned don t you agree, rosie suits me
much better, that s why my hair is this color as well, this isn t my natural color you see,
there is a sweet old lady in a small shop on indian canyon that orders this color especially for me,
and i had her promise me not to use it on anyone else" she stopped the stream of words when
henry held his hand up to silence her for a moment. "please call me henry, and though i would really
like to hear about your hairdresser some ohure time, i d like to spend a few minutes with you talking
about mr. thornbird. please tell me how long you have known him and what your relationship with him was like
and also some of his past deals - especially what he was currently working on." henry was a little annoyed
as he caught himself doing the same thing as the woman sitting across the table from him by blurting out
all the questions he wanted to ask at once. he set his coffee cup down on the table a little
too hard and some of the coffee sloshed out onto the cherry table top, he took a deep breath to
get his control back as he reached into his pocket for his handkerchief to wipe the coffee up before it
penetrated the beautiful wood of the table. "rosie, let s take this slowly, ok?" he said folding his handkerchief back
up. "how long have you known mr. thornbird?" the small woman with the bright red hair was obviously startled when
henry put his coffee cup on the table and looked at him with her large bright green eyes and said
"i met mr. thornbird when i came to work here at the office as a receptionist four years ago."
