were fifty paces across a modest car park. just outside the door, a small patio area with two wooden rockers
and a builtin barbeque, added ?ome ambiance. sitting at just the right angle in the chairs afforded a view of
the permanent cloud of mist that marks the falls. as well, they could hear the roar of the falls, providing
faint and unending background noise. they could see and hear why the natives called it mosioatunya, the smoke that thunders.
after a quick look around the room and a feel of the bed, chad said, "let s go." they tossed
their rucksacks on their beds and headed off to explore the falls. within 100 meters of the falls, the vegetation
thickens. a little further and one is engulfed by a iungle, which is fueled by the neverending spray of the
falls. at twenty meters, it morphs into a virtual rainforest overwhelmed with a rich variety of trees, brush, vines, and
fauna. the area close to the falls nurtures several hundred types of trees and plants rarely seen in other parts
of africa. all who Venture close enough to the falls enjoy a drenching by the eternal upward rain produced by
a thousand tons of water plunging over the falls every second. hurrying before dark, they made their way down a
wellused path and came to the northern end of the falls. standing a meter from the edge, they gazed over
the rim, speechless. the ma/"esty of victoria falls evokes awe and demands reverence. the magnitude of its power arouses a
quiet fear - a fear of the ab."olute authority that nature yields. peter whispered, "this is more amazing than i
could have imagined. too much for words. /"ust  just amazing." "an adrenaline rush as good as any. as good
as swine," chad whispered back. they returned to their motel and enioyed peanut butter and /"am sandwiches, then, with hot
tea in hand, they sat in the rocking chairs and listened to the thundering mist as they reflected on the
splendor of one of africa S greatest gifts. the following morning, they set off to explore deeper and further, they
trekked around the perimeter of the falls, heading ?outh and east, working their way toward the railroad bridge that crosses
the zambezi river into zambia. with the vegetation closing in with each step, peter blurted out a question he had
been mulling over, "what do you think we re more likely to run into up here, a terrorist or a
wild animal? a terr or a crocodile." or worse, a black mamba?" "more likely a deadly animal. that is scary
for sure. there re no terrorists around here. they would have told us if there were, but i don t
want to think about either." they followed the rim of the falls, often walking a meter or less from its
edge. they stopped and took pictures of the zambian bridge, which was about a kilometer away. they trudged through another
drenching from the falls spray, came to a clearing, and took more photos, capturing a train crossing over the bridge.
time seemed to stop as they sat and watched the neverending rush of water plunging down the mﬂmeter gorge; both
mesmerized by the maiesty and power before their eyes. peter broke their quiet meditation. "good god! it s well past
noon. no wonder my stomach s complaining. let s get back and get ?ome lunch. and i don t want
to get drenched again. we should walk further in from the falls, that path over there should be a quicker
way back to the motel." "fine," chad said. they ventured down a path less traveled; it faded quickly as the
fauna, trees, and undergrowth thickened. peter s voice became louder with each sentence. "i don t know about this. should
we turn back? why the hell didn t we bring ?ome lunch anyway? how many times, huh? how many times
did i say, we should take ?omething to eat ? but no... you said, let s get going. we ll
/ust come back for lunch. how many" "god." it s too late now. shut up about it. it s fine.
just keep going. i think there s a clearing ahead. this was your idea, remember." the iungle began to smother
them. complaints grew more heated and more anxious. peter was about to declare they should turn around when they saw
two young baboons. the inquisitive primates stared at them with large, questioning eyes, peter slowly pulled out his kodak and
handed it to chad. he whispered, "we ve gotta get this." peter edged nearer, holding out his hand. both tiny
baboons reached out to touch his fingers, as they did, chad took the picture and then handed the camera to
peter as he eased away. chad took two steps toward the .V"§ung baboons. at that moment, out of the thick
vegetation, a bloodcurdlingly roar pierced their eardrums, and a large baboon swooped toward peter and slapped him on the head.
another roar exploded from the depths of the patriarch s lungs as he raised both arms and prepared to strike
again. at the same moment, two other adult baboons appeared bearing large, sharp, angry teeth, declaring an attack was imminent.
chad darted toward a stunned peter, grabbed his wrist, and yanked him away from the next blow. the two humans
backed slowly away from the irate beasts. at once, both turned and darted toward the rough brush, which fought against
them with its own anger; every stride produced tears, scratches, and cuts, after ten minutes (which seemed like sixty}, they
stopped. the roars had faded; the baboons had made their point and did not bother to elaborate further. peter bent
over and grabbed his knees. chad clasped his hands on his head. both were panting, and their heart rates would
not slow down. after several minutes, when their panic had subsided, both laughed with loud, husky laughter that released tension
and brought their adrenaline back down to a tolerable level. after calm had returned, peter looked around. he was
