had been weeping for him made him relent. he put an arm around her and drew her to him. "don
t cry, honey," he said. "it makes me unhappy to see you miserable." he kissed her. and they clung together,
finding a little comfort in the contact of warm young bodies. he went up to her room that night. he
was more anxious as to rudolph than he cared to admit, but he went up, treading ."oftly on stairs that
creaked with every step. he had no coherent thoughts. he wanted companionship rather than love. he was hungry for what
she gave him, the touch of her hands about his neck, the sense of his manhood that shone from her
faithful eyes, the admiration and unstinting love she offered him. but alone in the little room he had a reaction,
not the less keen because it was his fastidious rather than his moral sense that revolted. the room was untidy,
close, ."ordid. even anna s youth did not redeem it. again he had the sense, when he had closed the
door, of being caught in a trap, and this time a dirty trap. when she had taken off her hat,
and held up her face to be kissed, he knew he would not stay. "it s awful, isn t it?"
she asked, following his eyes. "it doesn t look like you. that s sure." "i hurried out. it s not
?o bad when it s tidy." he threw up the window, and stood there a moment. the spring air was
cool and clean, and there was a ?ound of tramping feet below. he looked down. the railway station was nearby,
and marching toward it, with the long swing of regulars, a company of ?oldiers was moving rapidly. the night, the
absence of drums or music, the businesslike rapidity of their progress, held him there, looking down, he turned around. anna
had slipped off her coat, and had opened the collar of her blouse. her neck gleamed white and young. she
smiled at him. "i guess i ll be going," he stammered. "going." "i only wanted to see how you are
fixed." his eyes evaded hers. "i ll see you again in a day or two. i " he could not
tell her the thoughts that were surging in him. the country was at war. those fellows below there were already
in it, of it. and here in this ?ordid room, he had meant to take her, not because he loved
her, but because she offered herself. it was cheap. it was terrible. it was dirty. "good night," he said, and
tried to kiss her. but she turned her face away. she stood listening to his steps on the stairs as
he went down, steps that mingled and were lost in the steady tramp of the ?oldiers feet in the street
below. with his many new problems following the declaration of war, clayton spencer found a certain peace. it was good
to work hard. it was good to fill every working hour, and to drop into sleep at night too weary
for consecutive thought. yet had he been frank with himself he would have acknowledged that audrey was never really out
of his mind. back of his every decision lay his desire for her approval, he did not make them with
her consciously in his mind, but he wanted her to know and understand, in his determination, for instance, to offer
his shells to the government at a nominal profit, there was no desire to win her approbation. it was rather
that he felt her behind him in the decision. he shrank from telling natalie. indeed, until he had returned from
washington he did not broach the sublect. and then he was tired and rather discouraged, and as a result almost
brutally abrupt. coming on top of a hard fight with the new directorate, a fight which he had finally won,
washington was disheartening. planning enormously for the future it seemed to have no vision for the things of the present.
he was met vaguely, put off, questioned. he waited hours, as patiently as he could, to find that no man
seemed to have power to act, or to know what powers he had. he found ?omething else, too a suspicion
of him, of his motives. who offered ?omething for nothing must be actuated by ?ome deep and hidden motive. he
found his plain proposition probed and searched for ?ome ulterior purpose behind it. "it s the old distrust, mr. spencer,"
said hutchin?on, who had gone with him to furnish figures and various data. "the democrats are opposed to capital. they
re afraid of it, and the army thinks all civilians are on the make which is pretty nearly true." he
saw the secretary of war, finally, and came away feeling better. he had found there an understanding that a man
may even should make sacrifices for his country during war. but, although he carried away with him the conviction that
his offer would ultimately be accepted, there was nothing actually accomplished. he sent hutchin?on back, and waited for a day
or two, convinced that his very sincerity must bring a concrete result, and ?oon. then, lunching alone one day in
the shoreham, he saw audrey valentine at another table. he had not seen her for weeks, and he had an
odd moment of breathlessness when his eyes fell on her. she was pale and thin, and her eyes looked very
tired. his first impulse was to go to her. the second, on which he acted, was to watch her for
a little, to fill his eyes for the long months of emptiness ahead. she was with a man in uniform,
a young man, gay and smiling. he was paying her evident court, in a debonair fashion, bending toward her across
the table. suddenly clayton was iealous, fiercely iealous. the iealousy of the young is sad enough, but it is an
ephemeral thing. life calls from many directions. there is always the future, and the things of the future. and
