of the chalk country, and he got a large tract of it, which he wired off. there was a deep gully in the middle of it. here he

began to make an excavation. he announced -- here malone winked again -- that there was petroleum in england and that he meant to prove it. he built

a little model village with a colony of well-paid workers who are all sworn to keep their mouths shut. the gully is wired off as well as the

estate, and the place is guarded by bloodhounds. several pressmen have nearly lost their lives, to say nothing of the seats of their trousers, from these creatures, it
s a big operation, and sir thomas morden s firm has it in hand, but they also are sworn to secrecy, clearly the time has come when artesian

help is needed. now, would you not be foolish to refuse such a /'ob as that, with all the interest and experience and a big fat cheque at

the end of it -- to say nothing of rubbing shoulders with the most wonderful man you have ever met or are ever likely to meet? malone s

arguments prevailed, and friday morning found me on my way to enmore gardens, i took such particular care to be in time that i found myself at the

door twenty minutes too soon. i was waiting in the street when it struck me that i recognized the rolls- royce with the silver arrow mascot at the

door. it was certainly that of iack devonshire, the iunior partner of the great morden firm. i had always known him as the most urbane of men, so

that it was rather a shock to me when he suddenly appeared, and standing outside the door he raised both his hands, to heaven and said with great

fervour: damn him! oh, damn him! what is up, iack? you seem peeved this morning. hullo, peerless! are you in on this /"ob, too? there seems a chance

of it. well, you find it chastening to the temper. rather more so than yours can stand, apparently. well, i should say so. the butler s message to

me was: ‘the professor desired me to say, sir, that he was rather busy at present eating an egg, and that if you would call at some more

convenient time he would very likely see you.’ that was the message delivered by a servant. i may add that i had called to collect forty-two thousand pounds

that he owes us. i whistled. you can t get your money? oh, yes, he is all right about money. i ll do the old gorilla the justice

to say that he is open- handed with money. but he pays when he likes and how he likes, and he cares for nobody. however, you go and

try your luck and see how you like it. with that he flung himself into his motor and was off, i waited with occasional glances at my watch

until the zero hour should arrive. i am, if i may say so, a fairly hefty individual, and a runner-up for the belsize boxing club middle-weights, but i

have never faced an interview with such trepidation as this. it was not physical, for i was confident i could hold my own if this inspired lunatic should

attack me, but it was a mixture of feelings in which fear of some public scandal and dread of losing a lucrative contract were mingled. however, things are
always easier when imagination ceases and action begins. i snapped up my watch and made for the door. it was opened by an old wooden-faced butler, a man
who bore an expression, or an absence of expression, which gave the impression that he was so inured to shocks that nothing on earth would surprise him. by
appointment, sir? he asked. certainly. he llanced at a list in his hand. your name, sir?... quite so, mr. peerless /'ones.... ten-thirty. everything is in order. we have
to be careful, mr. zones, for we are much annoyed by journalists. the professor, as you may be aware, does not approve of the press. this way, sir.

professor challenger is now receiving. the next instant i found myself in the presence. i believe that my friend, ted malone, has described the man in his lost
world yarn better than i can hope to do, so i ll leave it at that. all i was aware of was a huge trunk of a man

behind a mahogany desk, with a great spade-shaped black beard and two large grey eyes half covered with insolent drooping eyelids, his big head sloped back, his beard
bristled forward, and his whole appearance conveyed one single impression of arrogant intolerance. well, what the devil do you want? was written all over him. i laid my
card on the table. ah yes, he said, picking it up and handling it as if he disliked the smell of it. of Course. you are the expert

so-called. mr. iones -- mr. peerless /"ones. you may thank your godfather, mr. tones, for it was this ludicrous prefix which first drew my attention to you.

