he could; for he did not like to be called bad names. "it is a water-baby!" cried ellie; and of
course it was. "water-fiddlesticks, my dear!" said the professor; and he turned away sharply. there was no denying it. it
was a water-baby: and he had said a moment ago that there were none. what was he to do." he
would have liked, of course, to have taken tom home in a bucket. he would not have put him in
spirits. of course not. he would have kept him alive, and petted him (for he was a very kind old
gentleman}, and written a book about him, and given him two long names, of which the first would have said
a little about tom, and the second all about himself; for of course he would have called him hydrotecnon ptthmllnsprtsianum,
or some other long name like that; for they are forced to call everything by long names now, because they
have used up all the short ones, ever since they took to making nine species out of one. but -
what would all the learned men say to him after his speech at the british association? and what would ellie
say, after what he had just told her." there was a wise old heathen once, who said, "maxima debetur pueris
reverentia" - the greatest reverence is due to children; that is, that grown people should never say or do anything
wrong before children, lest they should set them a bad example. - cousin cramchild says it means, "the greatest respectfulness
is expected from little boys." but he was raised in a country where little boys are not expected to be
respectful, because all of them are as good as the president:- well, every one knows his own concerns best; so
perhaps they are. but poor cousin cramchild, to do him justice, not being of that opinion, and having a moral
mission, and being no scholar to speak of, and hard up for an authority - why, it was a very
great temptation for him. but some people, and i am afraid the professor was one of them, interpret that in
a more strange, curious, one-sided, left-handed, topsy-turvy, inside-out, behind-before fashion than even cousin cramchild; for they make it mean, that
you must show your respect for children, by never confessing yourself in the wrong to them, even if you know
that you are so, lest they should lose confidence in their elders. now, if the professor had said to ellie,
"yes, my darling, it is a water-baby, and a very wonderful thing it is; and it shows how little i
know of the wonders of nature, in spite of forty years honest labour. i was just telling you that there
could be no such creatures; and, behold! here is one come to confound my conceit and show me that nature
can do, and has done, beyond all that man s poor fancy can imagine. so, let us thank the maker,
and inspirer, and lord of nature for all his wonderful and glorious works, and try and find out something about
this one;" - i think that, if the professor had said that, little ellie would have believed him more firmly,
and respected him more deeply, and loved him better, than ever she had done before. but he was of a
different opinion. he hesitated a moment. he longed to keep tom, and yet he half wished he never had caught
him; and at last he quite longed to get rid of him. so he turned away and poked tom with
his finger, for want of anything better to do; and said carelessly, "my dear little maid, you must have dreamt
of water-babies last night, your head is so full of them." now tom had been in the most horrible and
unspeakable fright all the while." and had kept as quiet as he could, though he was called a holothurian and
a cephalopod; for it was fixed in his little head that if a man with clothes on caught him, he
might put clothes on him too, and make a dirty black chimney-sweep of him again. but, when the professor poked
him, it was more than he could bear; and, between fright and rage, he turned to bay as valiantly as
a mouse in a corner, and bit the professor s finger till it bled, "oh! ah! yah." cried he; and
glad of an excuse to be rid of tom, dropped him on to the seaweed, and thence he dived into
the water and was gone in a moment. "but it was a water-baby, and i heard it speak!" cried ellie.
"ah, it is gone!" and she iumped down off the rock, to try and catch tom before he slipped into
the sea. too late! and what was worse, as she sprang down, she slipped, and fell some six feet, with
her head on a sharp rock, and lay quite still. the professor picked her up, and tried to waken her,
and called to her, and cried over her, for he loved her very much: but she would not waken at
all. so he took her up in his arms and carried her to her governess, and they all went home;
and little ellie was put to bed, and lay there quite still; only now and then she woke up and
called out about the water-baby: but no one knew what she meant, and the professor did not tell, for he
was ashamed to tell. and, after a week, one moonlight night, the fairies came flying in at the window and
brought her such a pretty pair of wings that she could not help putting them on; and she flew with
them out of the window, and over the land, and over the sea, and up through the clouds, and nobody
heard or saw anything of her for a very long while. and this is why they say that no one
has ever yet seen a water- baby. for my part, i believe that the naturalists get dozens of them
