it s an actual psychic event. you know i ve always said that i was..., psychic, i mean. that s
just too much! we could probably get on tv or something." "it is amazing," replied cassiopia with a wince. "hey,
that was a hot dream too, i mean there was these handsome guys in tuxedos and they.." cassiopia interrupted, "i
get the picture, bren, no need to elaborate, okay?" but it was no use. markman sat to one side of
the very large oak desk, facing the overstressed chancellor behind it. to his right sat a third person, someone unexpected.
the university had called in the fbi. agent ann rogers wore a dark, very well-fitting suit that could almost have
been worn by a man. not a hair was out of place. it was kept short, and perfectly captured. her
makeup was light and precisely applied. she was thin-lipped and had a narrow, terse stare. markman knew he was dealing
with a perfectionist. to his relief, the meeting was kept short. agent rogers was devoting her efforts to the computer
breach, and only needed an overview of dr. cassell s absence. markman reassured them that foul play was very unlikely.
dr. cassell s daughter was across the hall in the waiting room, and she agreed that some extraordinary opportunity had
probably popped up and her father had taken off on a spur of the moment hoping to capitalize on it.
they listened patiently and expressed reassurance at that. but, markman had felt agent rogers studying him out of the corner
of her eye. it would not be long before she was between him and the case of the missing doctor.
the ride home was moody. cassiopia stared quietly out the passenger window as though she were in deep thought about
something. markman draped one hand over the steering wheel and tried to relax. when the convenience store near the house
came into view, he decided to stop to replenish the cassell supply of coffee, an item that had been in
frequent demand lately. they parked directly in front of the glass store front, next to a beat-up old pickup truck.
inside the store, a heated argument was going on between the lone clerk and a grumpy-looking male customer. the two
were at odds across the checkout counter and the situation appeared to be worsening. markman cast an annoyed look at
his passenger. "evenwhere i go lately," he said. "you don t have to go in," she retorted sarcastically. he climbed
from the car, keeping a watchful eye on the escalating dispute, while cassiopia waited and observed. the muted voices quickly
changed from insistent to cutting as he pushed his way inside. he recognized the cashier as the older gentleman who
had mistaken him for someone else just a few days earlier. the gray-haired man eyed markman with a worried look
while trying to maintain his posture in the volatile exchange. "listen, by law i cannot sell you this. if you
go back out on the road and kill somebody they d hang me too," the merchant insisted while tapping the
cap of the bottle that sat on the counter top. "i ain t drunk and you re gonna sell me
this or you re goin through that plate glass winda , head first," slurred the red-faced customer. markman glanced out
the window at cassiopia and rolled his eyes in disgust. he came up beside the two men. "excuse me, can
you tell me where the coffee is?" the intoxicated patron turned abruptly and snarled, "now who the hell asked you
to butt in, asshole?" markman quietly shook his head, "no, i /"ust need some coffee, that s all. it s
cool." the glassy-eyed customer swayed slightly, keeping one hand on the counter for balance. he tilted his head as though
to belch, but nothing happened. he turned back to the clerk. "ring it up, right now or i ll beat
your ass." markman interrupted. "sir, are you driving that pickup parked out there?" "i told you to bug off." "did
he just drive up in that?" asked markman of the old man behind the counter. he had taken a step
back and folded his arms in front of him. "yes, he did." "hey, you know that thing qualifies for classic
tags? that thing s probably worth some money. mister, why don t you step outside with me and let me
take a look at it. i might be interested." markman s body had already tightened up. "for the last time,"
answered the unsteady man. "get out of my face. i about had it with you." markman had only to touch
the man s left shoulder, and the melee began. the drunk s right fist shot up at markman s face
but was slow and uncoordinated, hardly even a challenge. markman leaned back almost casually without taking his eyes off him,
and let the misguided punch sail harmlessly past. the off-balance motion caused the drunk to spin around and fall forward
on the counter, wiping out a display rack of cds and the colorful cardbread signs that urged their sale. the
displaced entourage crashed to the floor and scattered evenwhere on the slick tile. markman braced his right hand and body
weight against the man s back and pinned him to the counter. he got control of the dirty, flailing left
arm and wrenched it up behind, capturing him in an arm lock, but being careful not to harm him. this
man was probably a decent person when sober, and who was to say his reasons for drinking weren t painfully
severe, thought markman. "if you ll open the door, i ll take him outside," he said to the storekeeper, who
quickly responded by racing around from behind the protective counter and pushing open one of the heavy glass doors. "wide
and deep, madam," replied ayrton; "a mile wide, with an impetuous current. a good swimmer could not go over without
danger." "let us build a boat then," said robert, who never stuck at anything. "we have only to cut
