addressed the sorcerers, although many of the words she used were not known to me, and the general form of
her language appeared archaic, as for instance that of spenser is compared with modern english. when she saw i did
not comprehend her, however, she would stop and cast her sentences in a different shape, till at length i caught
her meaning. now i give the substance of what she said. "you are safe," she began, glancing first at the
palm ropes that lay upon the rock and then at my wrists, one of which was cut. "yes, lady yva,
thanks to your father." "you should say thanks to me. my father was thinking of other things, but i was
thinking of you strangers, and from where i was i saw those wicked ones coming to kill you." "oh! from
the top of the mountain, i suppose." she shook her head and smiled but vouchsafed no further explanation, unless her
following words can be so called. these were: "i can see otherwise than with my eyes, if i choose." a
statement that caused bickley, who was listening, to mutter: "impossible! what the deuce can she mean? telepathy, perhaps." "i saw,"
she continued, "and told the lord, my father. he came forth. did he kill them? i did not look to
learn." "yes. they lie in the lake, all except three whom he sent away as messengers." "i thought so. death
is terrible, o humphrey, but it is a sword which those, who rule must use to smite the wicked and
the savage. not wishing to pursue this subject, i asked her what her father was doing with the metal plates.
"he reads the stars," she answered, "to learn how long we have been asleep. before we went to sleep he
made two pictures of them, as they were then and as they should be at the time he had set
for our awakening." "we set that time," interrupted bickley. "not so. o bickley," she answered, smiling again. "in the divine
oro s head was the time set. you were the hand that executed his decree." when bickley heard this i
really thought he would have burst. however, he controlled himself nobly, being anxious to hear the end of this mysterious
fib. "how long was the time that the lord oro set apart for sleep?" i asked. she paused as though
puzzled to find words to express her meaning, then held up her hands and said: "ten," nodding at her fingers.
by second thoughts she took bickley s hands, not mine, and counted his ten fingers. "ten years," said bickley. "well,
of course, it is impossible, but perhaps--" and he paused. "ten tens," she went on with a deepening smile, "one
hundred." "o!" said bickley. "ten hundreds, one thousand." "i say!" said bickley. "ten times ten thousand, one hundred thousand." bickley
became silent. "twice one hundred thousand and half a hundred thousand, two hundred and fifty thousand years. that was the
space of time which the lord oro, my father, set for our sleep. whether it has been fulfilled he will
know presently when he has read the book of the stars and made comparison of it with what he wrote
before we laid us down to rest," and she pointed to the metal plates which the ancient was studying. bickley
walked away, making sounds as though he were going to be ill and looking so absurd in his indignation that
i nearly laughed. the lady yva actually did laugh, and very musical was that laugh. "he does not believe," she
said. "he is so clever he knows everything. but two hundred and fifty thousand years ago we should have thought
him quite stupid. then we could read the stars and calculate their movements for ever." "so can we," i answered,
rather nettled. "i am glad, o humphrey, since you will be able to show my father if in one of
them he is wrong." secretly i hoped that this task would not be laid on me. indeed, i thought it
well to change the subject for the edification of bickley who had recovered and was drawn back by his eager
curiosity. /"ust then, too, bastin ioined us, happy in his regained boots. "you tell us, lady yva," i said, "that
you slept, or should have slept for two hundred and fifty thousand years." here bastin opened his eyes. "if that
was so, where was your mind all this time?" "if by my mind you mean spirit, 0 humphrey, i have
to answer that at present i do not know for certain. i think, however, that it dwelt elsewhere, perhaps in
other bodies on the earth, or some different earth. at least, i know that my heart is very full of
memories which as yet i cannot unroll and read." "great heavens, this is madness!" said bickley. "in the great heavens,"
she answered slowly, "there are many things which you, poor man, would think to be madness, but yet are truth
and perfect wisdom. these things, or some of them, soon i shall hope to show you." "do if you can,"
said bickley. "why not?" interrupted bastin. "i think the lady s remarks quite reasonable. it seems to me highly improbable
if really she has slept for two hundred and fifty thousand years, which, of course, i can t decide, that
an immortal spirit would be allowed to remain idle for so long. that would be wallowing in a bed of
idleness and shirking its duty which is to do its work. also, as she tells you, bickley, you are not
half so clever as you think you are in your silly scepticism, and i have no doubt that there are
many things in other worlds which would expose your ignorance, if only you could see them." at this moment oro
turned and called his daughter. she went at once, saying: "come, strangers, and you shall learn." so we followed her.
"daughter," he said, speaking in orofenan, i think that we might understand, "ask these strangers to bring one of
