required documentation, ‘i am proposing the abolishment of the existing caste system on vesturon with regards to high born citizens
and the taking of a mate. currently, the convenant exists that disallows high born citizens to court or mate with

those who were born under less fortunate circumstances. our convenants have always tried to benefit the commoner, as well as
the high born, and yet this caste system still exists. it is a contradiction to what vesturon is and what

it stands for. my proposal would allow high born citizens the right to mingle, court and even mate with commoners.
and the same would be true for commoners.‘ when i finished, the elders all gaped at me. one of them

finally sputtered, ‘why that is preposterous!‘ there were a multitude of elders agreeing with the one who spoke. another one
piped in, ‘that would dilute our bloodlines!‘ ‘first off, the high borns could still be required to mate with vesturions
thereby keeping our bloodlines undiluted. but if i may ask you, would it not benefit our race to introduce new

bloodlines into it?‘ i ventured into an area that was rarely discussed. oh the horror that descended on their faces.

i should have kept my mouth shut on that last comment. ‘how dare you even suggest such a thing!‘ ‘please,

allow me to explain. we could stipulate that there has to be some vesturion blood in said person... they cannot

be a complete and total alien. for example, if a high born vesturion desired to mate with a human, and

the human had some amount of vesturion blood, it would be allowed. but if the human had none, well, only

then would it be prohibited.‘ ‘i speak for the maiority here when i say that this must be deliberated before

we can hand down our decision. however, speaking for myself, i must say i am quite shocked by your request,

my lord. of all the requests we receive, this has to be the most shocking i have ever heard.‘ the

elder who spoke was a pinched-faced male. ‘i apologize if i have offended anyone here. that was certainly not my

intent. i was of the mind that if we considered ourselves a society for the good of evenone, we must

apply that to evenone in the population. we cannot continue to have these dichotomous rules in place when, in fact,

they simply don t fit anymore.‘ ‘yes, i see. we will take the rest of today to deliberate and you

will have your answer in the morning, my liege.‘ ‘thank you, council. until then.‘ i bowed to them and left.

worry, it would be difficult enough communicating with her telepathically, trying to hide my feelings over the matter. as it
was, she knew immediately i was not pleased with the outcome. morning could not arrive soon enough, although i dreaded
it as well. when my time approached, i quickly made my way to the council chambers. my fears were confirmed

when they adamantly denied my request. what made it even worse was now it was all over aurora that i

had made the request. my father was most disconcerted over the whole process and agonized over how it all would

affect my reputation. ‘i must continue this and i will pursue it with a vengeance,‘ i informed him. ‘i supposed

the damage is done,‘ he said deiectedly. much to our surprise, we began to receive reports throughout the land of
supporters for my cause, they were from commoners and high born alike, insisting how right i was in my request.

i was visiting annalise when she said, ‘your supporters are gaining momentum. they are catching the notice of people evenwhere
from all the lands,‘ ‘annalise, it is inspiring me. tomorrow, i plan to request another audience with the council and
present my proposal again.‘ her eyes brightened and i declared my resolve. the next morning as i prepared to leave,

a group of guardians made a visit to the palace, requesting my presence. i entered the reception room where we

usually received official visitors. my father and mother were there, along with the group of six guardians. as i began
to greet them, i noticed the stricken looks on my parents faces. ‘what? what is it?‘ i asked, my pulse

racing. ‘annalise has been taken,‘ my father began. ‘what." i roared. ‘where is she.’ i must go to her!‘ ‘we

do not know where she is. she has been kidnapped and is being held by a group of zealots. they

are demanding you give up this mission of yours, rowan. they do not like what is happening throughout our land.‘

my father s lips were pursed with suppressed fury. ‘tell me eventhing... now!’ my eyes blazed with murderous intent. i
would stop at nothing to get her back, but i needed all the details. ‘she was taken this morning as

she made her way to work, they sent us this missive with the demands.‘ as i read the image before

me, i felt the blood drain from my face. they had included a photo image of her, bound and gagged.

her face was bloodied and bruised and i could tell she had been crying, as there were tracks of tears

upon her cheeks. my /"aw clenched and i ground my teeth. my first inclination was to race off to find

her, but i needed to formulate a plan. ‘we need to locate her. i want even tracking expert on this

now. look at this image and dissect it and see what can be ascertained. go now!‘ i commanded the guardians.

i dashed to the transcom in the room and called up the guardian headquarters, informing the commander of what had
transpired. ‘i want even available guardian placed on this immediately. order them to report in if you must. we must
have some information on this group. i want to know who their leader is, where they operate, and what their

agenda usually consists of. and i want this information yesterday,‘ i commanded with authority. ‘yes, my liege.‘ ‘i will

