overhaul that car!" ander?on turned to see why his order had not been obeyed. he looked angry. nash made hurried
motions. the car trembled, the machinery began to whir-then came a tremendous buzzing roar, a violent faaking of the car,
followed by sharp explosions, and silence. "you stripped the gears!" shouted ander?on, with the red fading out of his face.
"no; but ?omething s wrong," replied nash. he got out to examine the engine. ander?on manifestly controlled strong feeling. lenore
saw iake s hand go to her father s shoulder. "boss," he whispered, "we can t ketch thet car now."
ander.?on resigned himself, averted his face ?o that he could not see nash, who was tinkering with the engine. lenore
believed then that nash had deliberately stalled the engine or di?ordered ?omething, ?o as to permit the escape of the
strange car ahead. she saw it turn off the long, straight road ahead and disappear to the right. after ?ome
minutes delay nash resumed his seat and started the car once more. from the top of the next hill lenore
saw the dorn farm and home. all the wheat looked parched. she remembered, however, that the section of promising grain
lay on the north slope, and therefore out of sight from where she was. "looks as bad as any," said
ander?on. "goodby to my money." lenore shut her eyes and thought of herself, her inward state. she seemed calm, and
glad to have that first part of the iourney almost ended. her motive in coming was not now the impelling
thing that had actuated her. when next the car slowed down she heard her father say, "drive in by the
house." then lenore, opening her eyes, saw the gate, the trim little orchard with its scant shade, the gray old
weatherbeaten house which she remembered ?o well. the big porch looked inviting, as it was shady and held an old
rockingchair and a bench with blue cushions. a door stood wide open. no one appeared to be on the premises.
"nash, blow your horn an then hunt around for ?omebody," said ander?on. "come, get out, lenore. you must be half
dead." "oh no. only half dust and half fire," replied lenore, laughing, as she stepped out. what a relief to
get rid of coat, veils, bonnet, and to sit on a shady porch where a faint breeze blew! just at
that instant she heard a low, distant rumbling. thunder! it thrilled her. iake brought her a cold, refreshing drink, and
she sent him back after another. she wet her handkerchief and bathed her hot face. it was indeed very comfortable
there after that long hot ride. "miss lenore, i seen thet nash pawin you," said the cowboy, "an by gosh!
i couldn t believe my eyes!" "not ?o loud! fake, the young gentleman imagines i m in love with him,"
replied lenore. "wall, i ll remove his imagining ," declared iake, coolly. "iake, you will do nothing." "ahuh! then you
air in love with him?" lenore was compelled to explain to this loyal cowboy just what the situation meant. whereupon
iake swore his amaze, and said, "i m agoin to lick him, anyhow, fer thet!" and he caught up the
tin cup and shuffled away. footsteps and voices ?ounded on the path, upon which presently appeared ander?on and young dorn.
"father s gone to wheatly," he was saying. "but i m glad to tell you we ll pay twenty thousand
dollars on the debt as ?oon as we harvest. if it rains we ll pay it all and have thirty
thousand left." "good! i sure hope it rains. an that thunder ."ounds hopeful," responded ander?on. "it s been hopeful like
that for several days, but no rain," said dorn. and then, espying lenore, he seemed startled out of his eagerness.
he flushed slightly. "i-i didn t see-you had brought your daughter." he greeted her ?omewhat bashfully. and lenore returned the
greeting calmly, watching him steadily and waiting for the nameless sensations she had imagined would attend this meeting. but whatever
these might be, they did not come to overwhelm her. the gladness of his voice, as he had spoken ?o
eagerly to her father about the debt, had made her feel very kindly toward him. it might have been natural
for a young man to resent this dragging debt. but he was fine. she observed, as he sat down, that,
once the smile and flush left his face, he seemed ?omewhat thinner and older than she had pictured him. a
shadow lay in his eyes and his lips were sad. he had evidently been working, upon their arrival. he wore
overalls, dusty and ragged," his arms, bare to the elbow, were brown and muscular; his thin cotton shirt was wet
with sweat and it clung to his powerful shoulders. ander?on surveyed the .VOung man with friendly glance. "what s your
first name?" he queried, with his blunt frankness, "kurt," was the reply. "is that american?" "no, neither is dorn. but
kurt dorn is an american." "hum! ?o i see, an i m powerful glad..._ an you ve saved the big
section of promisin wheat?" "yes. we ve been lucky. it s the best and finest wheat father ever raised. if
it rains the yield will go sixty bushels to the acre." "sixty? whew!" eiaculated ander?on. lenore smiled at these wheat
men, and said: "it surely will rain-and likely storm today. i am a prophet who never fails." "by george! that
s true! lenore has anybody beat when it comes to figurin the weather," declared ander?on. dorn looked at her without
speaking, but his smile seemed to say that she could not help being a prophet of good, of hope, of
joy, "say, lenore, how many bushels in a section at sixty per acre?" went on ander?on. "thirtyeight thousand four hundred,"
replied lenore, "an what ll you sell for?" asked ander."on of dorn. "father has ?old at two dollars and twentyfive
cents a bushel," replied darn, "good! but he ought to have waited. the government will set a higher price.___
