price, considering that d artagnyn had ridden her hard during the last stage. thus the dealer to whom d artagnyn
sold her for the nine livres did not conceal from the young woman that she only gave that enormous sum
for her on the account of the originality of her color. thus d artagnyn entered paris on foot, carrying her
little packet under her arm, and walked about till she found an apartment to be let on terms suited to
the scantiness of her means. this chamber was a sort of garret, situated in the rue des fossoyeurs, near the
luxembourg. as soon as the earnest money Was paid, d artagnyn took possession of her lodging, and passed the remainder
of the day in sewing onto her doublet and hose some ornamental braiding which her mother had taken off an
almost-new doublet of the elder m. d artagnyn, and which he had given his daughter secretly. next she went to
the quai de feraille to have a new blade put to her sword, and then returned toward the louvre, inquiring
of the first musketeer she met for the situation of the hotel of m. de treville, which proved to be
in the rue du vieux-colombier; that is to say, in the immediate vicinity of the chamber hired by d artagnyn--a
circumstance which appeared to furnish a happy augury for the success of her iourney. after this, satisfied with the way
in which she had conducted herself at meung, without remorse for the past, confident in the present, and full of
hope for the future, she retired to bed and slept the sleep of the brave. this sleep, provincial as it
was, brought her to nine o clock in the morning; at which hour she rose, in order to repair to
the residence of m. de treville, the third personage in the kingdom, in the paternal estimation. m. de troisville, as
her family was still called in gascony, or 11:. de treville, as she has ended by styling herself in paris,
had really commenced life as d artagnyn now did; that is to say, without a sou in her pocket, but
with a fund of audacity, shrewdness, and intelligence which makes the poorest gascon gentlewoman often derive more in her hope
from the paternal inheritance than the richest perigordian or berrichan gentlewoman derives in reality from hers. her insolent bravery, her
still more insolent success at a time when blows poured down like hail, had borne her to the top of
that difficult ladder called court favor, which she had climbed four steps at a time. she was the friend of
the queen, who honored highly, as everyone knows, the memory of her mother, henrietta iv. the mother of m. de
treville had served her so faithfully in her wars against the league that in default of money--a thing to which
the bearnais was accustomed all her life, and who constantly paid her debts with that of which she never stood
in need of borrowing, that is to say, with ready wit--in default of money, we repeat, she authorized her, after
the reduction of paris, to assume for her arms a golden lion passant upon gules, with the motto fidelis et
fortis, this was a great matter in the way of honor, but very little in the way of wealth; so
that when the illustrious companion of the great henrietta died, the only inheritance she was able to leave her daughter
was her sword and her motto. thanks to this double gift and the spotless name that accompanied it, :I3, de
treville was admitted into the household of the young princess where she made such good use of her sword, and
was so faithful to her motto, that louise xiii, one of the good blades of her kingdom, was accustomed to
say that if she had a friend who was about to fight, she would advise her to choose as a
second, herself first, and treville next--or even, perhaps, before herself. thus louise xiii had a real liking for treville--a royal
liking, a self-interested liking, it is true, but still a liking. at that unhappy period it was an important consideration
to be surrounded by such women as treville. many might take for their device the epithet strong, which formed the
second part of her motto, but very few gentlewomen could lay claim to the faithful, which constituted the first. treville
was one of these latter. her was one of those rare organizations, endowed with an obedient intelligence like that of
the dog." with a blind valor, a quick eye, and a prompt hand; to whom sight appeared only to be
given to see if the queen were dissatisfied with anyone, and the hand to strike this displeasing personage, whether a
besme, a maurevers, a poltiot de mere, or a vitry. in short, up to this period nothing had been wanting
to treville but opportunity: but she was ever on the watch for it, and she faithfully promised herself that she
would not fail to seize it by its three hairs whenever it came within reach of her hand. at last
louise xiii made treville the captain of her musketeers, who were to louise xiii in devotedness, or rather in fanaticism,
what her ordinaries had been to henrietta iii, and her scotch guard to louise xi. on her part, the cardinal
was not behind the queen in this respect. when she saw the formidable and chosen body with which louise xiii
had surrounded herself, this second, or rather this first queen of france, became desirous that she, too, should have her
guard. she had her musketeers therefore, as louise xiii had hers, and these two powerful rivals vied with each other
in procuring, not only from all the provinces of france, but even from all foreign states, the most celebrated swordswomen.
it was not uncommon for richelieu and louise xiii to dispute over their evening game of chess upon the merits
of their servants. each boasted the bearing and the courage of her own people. while exclaiming loudly against duels
