away, but she was watching uneasily the goings and comings of ?ome of these men maddened with alcohol. the most
terrible of them all was that fat officer who had patted georgette ."o paternally. apprehension for her daughter s safety
made her hurry restlessly away, saying over and over: "god has forgotten the world.... ay, what is ever going to
become of us." don marcelo was now tinglingly awake. through the open window was blowing the clear night air. the
cannonading was still going on, prolonging the conflict way into the night. below the castle the ?oldiers were intoning a
slow and melodious chant that ?ounded like a psalm. from the interior of the edifice rose the whoopings of brutal
laughter, the crash of breaking furniture, and the mad chase of dis?olute pursuit. when would this diabolical orgy ever wear
itself down?... for a long time he was not at all sleepy, but was gradually losing consciousness of what was
going on around him when he was roused with a start. near him, on the same floor, a door had
fallen with a crash, unable to resist a succession of formidable batterings. this was followed immediately by the screams of
a woman, weeping, desperate supplications, the noise of a struggle, reeling steps, and the thud of bodies against the Wall.
he had a presentiment that it was georgette shrieking and trying to defend herself. before he could put his feet
to the floor he heard a man s voice, which he was sure was the keeper s; she was safe.
"ah, you villain!"... then the outbreak of a second struggle... a shot... silence! rushing down the hallway that ended at
the stairway desnoyers saw lights, and many men who came trooping up the stairs, bounding over several steps at a
time. he almost fell over a body from which escaped a groan of agony. at his feet lay the warden,
his chest moving like a pair of bellows, his eyes glassy and unnaturally distended, his mouth covered with blood.... near
him glistened a kitchen knife. then he saw a man with a revolver in one hand, and holding shut with
the other a broken door that ?omeone was trying to open from within. don marcelo recognized him, in spite of
his greenish pallor and wild look. it was blumhardt another blumhardt with a bestial expression of terrifying ferocity and lust.
don marcelo could see clearly how it had all happened the debauchee rushing through the castle in search of his
prey, the anxious father in close pursuit, the cries of the girl, the unequal struggle between the consumptive with his
emergency weapon and the warrior triumphant. the fury of his youth awoke in the old frenchman, sweeping everything before it.
what did it matter if he did die?... "ah, you villain!" he yelled, as the poor father had done. and
with clenched fists he marched up to the german, who smiled coldly and held his revolver to his eyes. he
was just going to shoot him... but at that instant desnoyers fell to the floor, knocked down by those who
were leaping up the stairs. he received many blows, the heavy boots of the invaders hammering him with their heels.
he felt a hot stream pouring over his face. bloodi... he did not know whether it was his own or
that of the palpitating mortal slowly dying beside him. then he found himself lifted from the floor by many hands
which pushed him toward a man. it was his excellency, with his uniform burst open and smelling of wine. eyes
and voice were both trembling. "my dear sir," he stuttered, trying to recover this suave irony, "i warned you not
to interfere in our affairs and you have not obeyed me. you may now take the consequences of your lack
of discretion." he gave an order, and the old man felt himself pushed downstairs to the cellars underneath the castle.
those conducting him were ?oldiers under the command of a petty officer whom he recognized as the ?ocialist. this young
profes?or was the only one ?ober, but he maintained himself erect and unapproachable with the ferocity of discipline. he put
his pri?oner into an arched vault without any breathingplace except a tiny window on a level with the floor. many
broken bottles and chests with ?ome straw were all that was in the cave. "you have insulted a head officer!"
said the official roughly, "and they will probably shoot you tomorrow. your only salvation lies in the continuance of the
revels, in which case they may forget you." as the door of this subcellar was broken, like all the others
in the building, a pile of boxes and furniture was heaped in the entrance way. don marcelo passed the rest
of the night tormented with the cold the only thing which worried him just then. he had abandoned all hope
of life." even the images of his family seemed blotted from his memory. he worked in the dark in order
to make himself more comfortable on the chests, burrowing down into the straw for the sake of its heat. when
the morning breeze began to sift in through the little window he fell slowly into a heavy, overpowering sleep, like
that of criminals condemned to death, or duellists before the fatal morning. he thought he heard shouts in german, the
galloping of horses, a distant ?ound of tattoo and whistle such as the battalions of the invaders made with their
fifes and drums... then he lost all consciousness of his surroundings, on opening his eyes again a ray of sunlight,
slipping through the window, was tracing a little golden square on the wall, giving a regal splendor to the hanging
cobwebs. ."omebody was removing the barricade before the door. a woman s voice, timid and distressed, was calling repeatedly: "master,
are you here?" he sprang up quickly, wishing to aid the worker outside, and pushing vigorously. he thought that the
invaders must have left. in no other way could he imagine the warden s wife daring to try to
