moon. however, these powers were flawed. they were not constant but a temporary power, since lightning and thunder only came
during a storm, and the sun and moon were limited by day or night. therefore, these earliest deserters failed and
crawled back to their holy father begging for his mercy. then millennia later when the children became wiser, another group
of children deserted their holy father to become their own gods, but this time they decided to choose powers related
to feelings. some children chose happiness, sadness, anger, ioy, laughter, and sorrow; however, no matter how much power they could
garner, none came close to their father s power of love. hence, that is why our holy father is also
called the god of love." the lads nodded enthusiastically. emeral said, "nonetheless, there did come a child that was most
envious and desirous of his holy father. so when the time came, he ran away in search of discovering a
power that would match his father s. and as a lesson to his son, god abandoned him in an effort
for him to fail so that he may return home begging for mercy; however, something most unfortunate occurred. being the
smartest and most gifted of all his children, this child of god took up fﬁelings of hate. as he prayed
inwardly, all the while reviling his father s name, his children, and everything that he created, the son s heart
and soul began to blacken. at last, when he cursed all that he was, the world trembled with great horror,
for this child of god bore a new power that equaled the power of love. his name is raul, and
his power is fear." the words struck a particular chord with damyen. "is that why you stormed out of my
room in port pleasant because saint seraphim s passage may actually be speaking to god s love and raul s
fear?" "possibly. that is why i am even more concerned about claudias vision. but as i was saying,,_" the lads
strode alongside emeral with open ears as he continued, "after raul created this extraordinary new power, he decided to travel
to each of the five kingdoms and impregnate this newfound fear into the souls of every man. he did this
not only to increase his power but also to rally an army against the god of love. once raul was
accepted into their communities and earned their trust, he went to work at distorting their beliefs in god. he told
them that the god of love resided on top of a mountain surrounded by a city of gold and that
he had become selfish and greedy. he said that although he claimed to rule over all people and lands, he
did not care for anyone but his chosen who lived luxuriously inside his walled city. raul posed a convincing argument
to the tribes that if the god of love were indeed true and just, why did he help some but
not others? and why did he treat the <chosen:- lavishly instead of providing for all his people equally?" the three
listeners mumbled their agreement. "when raul succeeded at placing the communities at odds with one another, he gathered up the
little fear that was beginning to root in their hearts and created a furious storm that destroyed their villages. by
the following dusk, he had increased the amount of fear placed in their hearts tenfold. he then con/"ured up a
second storm more furious than the first. this vicious cycle repeated itself for several months until the tribesmen sought raul
for advice. raul advised that they seek the god of love s help. so the tribesmen agreed and packed up
their belongings and followed raul into the desert. as they traveled to the <<holy> <city:—:—, raul ensured the storm followed
closely behind. but when the five tribes reached the gates full of fear, god s chosen refused to let them
enter due to their impurity. this response infuriated them so much that the five kingdoms decided to unite and wage
war against the god of love." damyen barely held back a gasp. "it was then that the five kingdoms attacked
theoria and breached the gates. they fought their way towards the temple mount striking down anyone who stood in there
way; however, not one of god s <chosen:- fought back. and before any of them were struck down, they vanished
into thin air-until their return at the end times. by sundown, the five kingdoms had reached the foot of the
mountain, and there they joined raul in reviling the god of love s name. it was in that moment when
raul raised himself up before the five tribes and commanded their worship, seeing the divinity within him, the five tribes
bowed to their new god out of fear, and raul ascended the mountain to unseat the holy father." emeral gripped
his beard, and his eyes glazed over as if the event played on before him. "but what raul did next
would come to haunt his eternal existence. when raul reached the summit, he dashed off across the courtyard, rushed up
the steps past the pillars, and lunged into the god of love s holy temple. the mountain trembled, and the
god of love s uncreated light cast itself in every direction. then the people from the five kingdoms realized the
evil they had committed and dropped to their knees begging the god of love for mercy. and indeed the god
of love was merciful; he did not strike them down, but instead he gave them a second chance. it is
written in our holy book of credintza that this second chance would be much harder then the first because man
now had to work tirelessly to earn god s favor. if you lived a good life according to his new
covenant, then you would /oin the god of love in his newly created kingdom, in the heavens, which represents eternal
life. it is not an earthly kingdom; thus, the people chose not an earthly number. seven represents wholeness; hence,
