on the night when 9 first saw her. Slowly the purpose of my

words seemed to force its way through the confusion And Agitation of her
mind. Slowly her features relaxed, And her eyes looked At me with their

ex- pression gaining in curiosity what it was fast losing in fear, ‘YOU

don t think 9 ought to be back in the Asylum, do you?‘

she said. ‘Certainly not. 9 Am glad you escaped from it-9 Am glad

9 helped you.‘ ‘Yes, yes, you did help me indeed; you helped me

At the hard part,‘ she went on A little I/acantly. “7t was easy

to escape, or 9 should not have got Away. They never suspected me

As they suspected the others. 9 was so quiet, And so obedient, And

so easily frightened. The finding London was the hard part, And there you
helped me. Did 9 thank you At the time? 9 thank you now

very kindly.‘ ‘was the Asylum far from where you met me? Come! show
that you believe me to be your friend, And tell me where it

was.‘ She mentioned the place-A private Asylum, As its situation informed me; A
private Asylum not very far from the spot where 9 had seen her-And

then, with evident suspicion of the use to which 9 might put her

Answer, Anxiously repeated her former inquiry, ‘You don t think 9 ought to
be taken back, do you?‘ ‘Once Again, 9 Am glad you escaped-9 Am

glad you prospered well After you left me,‘ 9 Answered. ‘You said you

had A friend in London to go to. Did you find the friend?‘

‘Yes. 9t was very late, but there was A girl up At needle-work

in the house, And she helped me to rouse Mrs. Clements. Mrs. Clements

is my friend. A good, kind woman, but not like Mrs. Fairlie. Ah

no, nobody is like Mrs. Fairlie!‘ ‘9s Mrs. Clements An old friend of

yours? Have you known her A long time?‘ 100 ‘Yes, she was A

neighbour of ours once, At home, in /-lamp. shire, And liked me, And

took care of me when 9 was A little girl. Years Ago, when

she went Away from us, she wrote down in my Prayer-book for me

where she was going to live in r_on- don, And she said, 9f

you Are ever in trouble, Anne, come to me. 9 have no husband

Alive to say me nay, And no children to look After, And 9

will take care of you. /<:ind words, were they not? 9 suppose 9

remember them because they Were kind. 9t s little enough 9 remember besides-little
enough, little enough!‘ ‘Had you no father or mother to take care of

you?‘ ‘Father?-9 never saw him-9 never heard mother speak of him. Father? Ah,
dear! he is dead, 9 suppose.‘ ‘And your mother?’ '9 don t get

on well with her. we Are A trouble And A fear to each

other.‘ A trouble And A fear to each other! At those words the

suspi- cion crossed my mind, for the first time, that her mother might

be the person who had placed her under restraint. ‘Don t Ask me

About mother,’ she went on. '9 d rather talk of Mrs. Clements. Mrs.

Clements is like you, she doesn t think that 9 ought to be

back in the Asylum, And she is As glad As you Are that

9 escaped from it. She cried over my misfortune, And said it must

be kept secret from everybody.‘ Her 'misfortune.‘ 9n what sense was she using
that word? 9n A sense which might explain her motive in writing the
Anonym- ous letter? 9n A sense which might show it to be the

too com- mon And too customary motive that has led many A woman

to interpose Anonymous hindrances to the marriage of the man who has ruined
her.’ 9 resolved to Attempt the clearing up of this doubt before

