tones defended a knotty point in theology, while the dons and heads of houses slumbered in their places, while the

few undergraduates remaining up for the long leaned over the gallery and looked about among the men below for some

handsome face to admire, lord chester sat motionless, dazing straight before him, obedient to the form, with his thoughts far
away. the strangeness of the new life passed away quickly; the outside life, the repression and pretence, were forgotten, or

only remembered with indignation. these young men were free; they laughed -- a thing almost unknown under a system when

a test was considered as necessarily either rude or scoffing, certainly ill-bred -- they laughed continually; they made up stories;
they related things which they had read. algy dunquerque, who was an actor, made a little comedy of the chancellor

and the duchess; and another of the trial and execution of the rebels, showing the fortitude of clarence veysey and

the unwillingness of himself: and another on the arguments for the perfect government. they sat up late; they drank wine

and sang songs,’ they talked of love and courtship; above all, they read the old books, think of their /'oy,

when they found on the shelves shakespeare, rabelais, fielding, smollett, and dickens! think of their laughter when they read aloud
those rude and boisterous writers, who respected nothing, not even marriage, and had never heard of any perfect woman at

all! think, too, of their delight when the words of wisdom went home to them; when they reflected on the

great and wise pantagruel, followed the voyagers among the islands of humanity, or watched over the career of hamlet, the
maddened prince of denmark! these were for their leisure hours, but serious business occupied the greater part of the day.
continually, also, the young men held counsel together, and discussed their plans. it was known that the rising would take

place at the earliest possible opportunity. but two difficulties presented themselves. what would constitute a favourable opportunity? and what would
be the best way to take advantage of it? algy dunquerque insisted, for his part, that they should ride through

the country, calling on the men to rise and follow. what, however, if the men refused to rise and follow?

iack kennion thought they should organise a small body first, drill and arm them, and then seize upon a place

and hold it. clarence veysey thought that he was himself able, book in hand, to persuade the whole of the

country. for men to rise against women seems, since the event, a ridiculously easy thing. as a matter of fact,

it was an extremely difficult thing. for the men had been so kept apart that they did not know how

to act together, and so kept in subiection that they were cowed. the prestige of the ruling seem was a

factor of the very highest importance. it was established, not only by law, but by religion. how ask men to

rebel when their eternal interests demanded submission? men, again, had no longer any hope of change, while the present seems
unalterable, no reform can ever be attempted. life was dull and monotonous; but how could it be otherwise? men had

ceased to ask if a change was possible, and the fighting spirit had left them; they were strong, of course,

but their strength was that of the patient ox. if there was to be fighting, the material on the side

of the government consisted first of the horse guards -- three regiments, beautifully mounted and accoutred in splendid uniforms --
every man a tall handsome fellow six feet high. these soldiers formed the escort at all great functions. they never

left london; they enioyed a very fair social consideration; some of them were married to ladies of good family, and

all were married well; they were commanded from the war office by a department of a hundred secretaries, clerks, and
copying-women. would they fight for the government? or would they come over? at present no one could tell. in addition

to these regiments, the nation, which had no real standing army, maintained a force of constabulary for prison- warders_ it

has been already stated that the prisons were crowded with desperadoes and violent persons convicted of wife- beating, boxing their
wives ears, pulling their hair, and otherwise ill-treating them against the religion and law. they were coerced and kept in

order by some fifteen or twenty thousand of the constabulary, who were drilled and trained, commanded by men chosen from
their own ranks as sergeants, and armed with loaded rifles. it is true that the men were recruited from the

lowest class -- many of them being thieves, common rogues, and [ail-birds, some of them having even volunteered as an

exchange from prison; their pay was low, their fare Phor; no woman of respectability would marry one of them; they

were rude, fierce, and ill-disciplined; they frequently ill-treated the prisoners; and their superior officers -- women who commanded from the
rooms of a department -- had no control whatever over them they would probably fight, if only for the contempt

and hatred in which they were held by men. where, for their own part, could they look for soldiers? there

were the rustics. they were strong, healthy, accustomed to work together, outspoken, never more than half-convinced of the superiority of
women, practising the duty of obedience no more than they Were obliged, fain to go courting on their own account,

the despair of preachers, who were constantly taunted with the ill success of their efforts, why, it was common --

in some cases it was the rule -- to find the woman in the cottage that most contemptible thing --

a man-pecked wife. what was the good of paying wages to this wife, when her husband took from her what

he wanted for himself? what was the good of making laws that men should not be abroad alone after dark,

when in most of the english villages the men stood loitering and talking together in the streets till bed-time?

