i can claim the office of acting commandant de place. . . .‘ bartholomew yelled up at him. ‘you can

claim whatever you like, you pimp. but no englishman ll sail for you, an that s a fact, we ll

spike these cannon if you re thinking to try any of the old tricks. it s a new day, by

all that s holy.‘ ‘what do you mean?‘ de fontenay glanced down. ‘i mean from this day forth we ll

sail for whatever master we ve a mind to.‘ de fontenay called to winston. ‘you saw who killed him, monsieur,

tell them.‘ he looked back toward bartholomew. ‘this man knew iacques better than any of you. his friend, the anglais,
from the very first days of the boucaniers. he will tell you the code makes me . . .‘ ‘anglais!‘

bartholomew stared at winston a moment, then a smile erupted across his hard face. ‘good god, i do believe it

is. you ve aged mightily, lad, on my honor. please take no offense i didn t recognize you before.‘ ‘it

s been a long time.‘ ‘god s blood, none of us ever knew your christian name, we all thought you

dead after you and iacques had that little shooting spree.‘ he grasped winston s hand. ‘do you have any idea

how proud we were of you? i tell you we all saw it when you pulled a pistol on that

bastard. you may not know it, sir, but it was because of you his band of french rogues didn t

rape that english frigate. all the englishmen amongst us wanted to stop it, but we had no chance.‘ he laughed.

‘in truth, sir, that was the start of all our troubles here. we never got along with the damn d

Frenchmen after that. articles or no. ‘hugh, what s he saying?‘ katherine was staring at him. ‘what do you mean?‘

‘is it true you stopped iacques and his men from taking our ship? the one you were talking about tonight?‘

‘the idea was we were only to kill spaniards. no englishman had done anything to us, it wouldn t have

been honorable. when iacques didn t agree with me on that point, things got a little unpleasant, that s when

somebody started firing on the ship.‘ ‘aye, the damn d frenchmen,‘ bartholomew interiected. ‘i was there, sir.‘ ‘i m sorry
the rest of us didn t manage to warn you in time.‘ winston slipped his arm around her, suddenly she

wanted to smother him in her arms, ‘but do you realize you must have saved my life? they would have

killed us all.‘ ‘they doubtless would have. eventually.‘ he reached over and kissed her, then drew back and examined her.
‘katy, i have a confession to make. i think i can still remember watching you. when i was in the

longboat, trying to reach the ship. i think i fell in love with you that morning. with that brave girl

who stood there at the railing, musket balls flying. i never forgot it, in all the years, my god, to

think it was you.‘ he held her against him for a moment, then lifted up her face, ‘which also means

i have you and yours to thank for trying to kill me, when i wanted to get out to where

you were.‘ ‘the captain just assumed you were one of them. i heard him talk about it after, nobody had

any idea . . .‘ she hugged him. ‘you and your honor. you changed my life.‘ ‘you and that ship

sure as hell changed mine. after i fell in love with you, i damned near died of thirst in that

leaky longboat. and then ruyters . .‘ ‘capitaine, please tell them i was the one who shot iacques. that

i am now commandant de place. ‘ de fontenay interrupted, his voice pleading. ‘that i have the authority to order

them ‘you re not ordering anything, by iesus. i m about to put an end to any more french orders

here and now.‘ bartholomew seized a burning stick from the fire in the boucan and flung it upward, onto the

veranda of the ‘dovecote.‘ a cheer went up from the english seamen clustered around, and before jacques s french guards
could stop them, they were flinging torches and flaming logs up into the citadel, ‘messieurs, no, please! /'e vous en
prie. non!‘ de fontenay stared up in horror. tongues of flame began to lick at the edge of the platform.

some of the guards dropped their muskets and yelled to get buckets of water from the spring behind the rock,

then they thought better of it and started edging gingerly toward the iron gates leading out of the fortress and

down the hill. the other guards who had been rifling the liquor came scurrying down the ladder, iostling de fontenay
aside. as winston urged katherine toward the gates, the young matelot was still lingering forlornly on the steps, gazing up
at the burning ‘dovecote.‘ finally, the last to leave forte de la roche, he sadly turned and made his way
out. 'senhor, what is happening here?‘ atiba was racing up the steps leading to the gate, carrying his cutlass.
swam to shore and came fastly as i could.‘ ‘there s been a little revolution up here, my friend. and

i ll tell you something else. there s likely to be some gunpowder in that citadel. for those demi-culverin. i
don t have any idea how many kegs he had, but knowing iacques, there was enough.‘ he took katherine s
hand. ‘it s the end for this place, that much you can be sure.‘ ‘hugh, what about the plan to

use his men?‘ she turned back to look. ‘we ll iust have to see how things here are going to

settle out now. maybe it s not over yet.‘ they moved onto the tree-lined pathway. the night air was sharp,
fragrant. above the glow of the fire, the moon hung like a lantern in the tropical sky. ‘you know,

'i

