manifestation of the 1755 of 7759 Anna kiarenina Divinity is
the law of right and wrong, which has come into

the world by revelation, and which 9 feel in myself,

and in the recognition of which-9 don t make myself,

but whether 9 will or not-9 am made one with

other men in one body of believers, which is called

the church. well, but the Fews, the Mohammedans, the Confucians,
the Buddhists-what of them? he put to himself the question
he had feared to face. can these hundreds of millions

of men be deprived of that highest blessing without which
life has no meaning? He pondered a moment, but immediately
corrected himself. 8ut what am 9 questioning? he said to
himself. 9 am questioning the relation to Divinity of all

the different religions of all mankind. 9 am questioning the
universal manifestation of God to all the world with all

those misty blurs. what am 9 about? To me individually,

to my heart has been revealed a knowledge beyond all

doubt, and unattainable by reason, and here '7 am obstinately
trying to express that knowledge in reason and words. Don

t 9 know that the stars don t move? he

asked himself, gazing at the bright planet which had shifted
its position up to the topmost twig of the birch-tree.

But looking at the movements of the stars, 9 can

t picture to 7756 of 1759 Anna Karenina myself the

rotation of the earth, and 9 m right in saying

that the stars move. And could the astronomers have understood
and calculated anything, if they had taken into account all

the complicated and varied motions of the earth? All the
marvelous conclusions they have reached about the distances, weights, movements,
and deflections of the heavenly bodies are only founded on
the apparent motions of the heavenly bodies about a stationary
earth, on that very motion 9 see before me now,

which has been so for millions of men during long

ages, and was and will be always alike, and can

always be trusted. And iust as the conclusions of the
astronomers would have been vain and uncertain if not founded
on observations of the seen heavens, in relation to a

single meridian and a single horizon, so would my conclusions
be vain and uncertain if not founded on that conception

of right, which has been and will be always alike

for all men, which has been revealed to me as

a Christian, and which can always be trusted in my

soul. The question of other religions and their relations to
Divinity 9 have no right to decide, and no possibility

of deciding, 1757 of 1759 Anna kzarenina Oh, you haven

t gone in then? he heard k:itty s voice all

at once, as she came by the same way to

the drawing- room. what is it? you re not worried

about anything? she said, looking intently at his face in

the starlight. 8ut she could not have seen his face

if a flash of lightning had not hidden the stars

and revealed it. 9n that flash she saw his face

distinctly, and seeing him calm and happy, she smiled at

him. She understands, he thought; she knows what 9 m
thinking about. Shall 9 tell her or not? Yes, 9

ll tell her. But at the moment he was

