s chocky, he told me. my spirits sank a little. i thought she d come away -- for good, i
said. matthew nodded. she did. but she s come back now. she says she wants me to tell you some
things. i sighed. it had been a relief to think that we had finished with all that, but matthew was
looking very earnest and somewhat troubled. i took a cigarette, lit it, and leaned back. all right, i said. i
m all attention. what things? but matthew had become abstracted. he did not appear to hear. he noticed my expression
though. sorry, daddy. /"ust a minute, he said, and reverted to his look of abstraction. his changes of expression and
the small movements of his head gave one a sensation of seeing one side of a television conversation, with the
sound cut off. it ended with him nodding and saying aloud: okay. i ll try, though rather doubtfully, looking at
me again he explained: chocky says it ll take an awful long time if she has to tell me and
then i have to tell you because sometimes i can t think of the right words for what she means;
and sometimes they don t quite mean it when i can; if You see what i mean. i think i
do, i told him. lots of other people have difficulty over that at the best of times. and when it
s a kind of translation, too, it must be quite hard work. yes, it is, matthew agreed, decidedly. so chocky
thinks it would be better if she talks to you herself. oh, i said. well -- tell her to go
ahead. what do i do? no, not the way she talks to me, i don t understand why, but she
says that only words with some people. it doesn t with you, so she wants to try and see if
we can do it another way. what other way? i inquired. well, me talking, but sort of letting her do
it  like my hands and the painting, he explained, not very adequately. oh, i said again, this time doubtfully,
i was feeling at sea, unclear what was implied, uncertain whether it ought to be encouraged, i don t know.
do you think ...? i don t know, he said. but chocky s pretty sure she can work it okay,
so i expect she can. she s usually right about things like that. i was uneasy, with a feeling that
i was being forced to take part in something suspiciously like a seance. i stalled. look here, i said. if
this is going to take some time, don t you think it would be better if you were in bed,
you d keep warmer there. all right, agreed matthew. so we went up to his room. he got back to
bed, and i sat down in a chair. i still had misgivings, a feeling that i ought not to be
allowing this to go on -- and a conviction that if mary were here she would disapprove strongly and i
only hoped that once matthew was back in bed again he would fall asleep. matthew leant his head back on
the pillow, and closed his eyes. i am going to think of nothing, he said, i hesitated. then: look here,
matthew. don t you ...? i began, and then broke off as his eyes reopened, they were not looking at
me now, nor, seemingly, at anything else. his lips parted, came together two or three times without a sound, parted
again, and his voice said: it is chocky talking. there was no air of seance about it, nothing of the
medium about matthew: no pale face, no change in his rate of breathing. except for the unfocussed look in his
eyes he was apparently quite himself. the voice went on: i want to explain some things to you. it is
not easy because i can use only matthew s understanding, and only his -- there was a slight pause --
vocabulary, which is simple, and not large, and has some meanings not clear in his mind. the voice was characteristically
matthew s, but the flatness of its delivery was certainly not. there was an impression of intended decisiveness blurred, and
frustrated; an athlete condemned to take part in a sack-race. unwillingly fascinated i said: very well, i ll do my
best to follow you. i want to talk to you because i shall not come back again after this. you
will be glad to hear this: the other part of his parent, i mean matthew, i mean your wife, will
be gladder because it is afraid of me and thinks i am bad for matthew, which is a pity because
i did not mean me, i mean you, i mean matthew, any harm. do you understand." i think so, i
said, cautiously. but wouldn t it be best to tell me first who you are, what you are, why you
are here at all? i am an explorer, i mean scout, i mean missionary -- no, i mean teacher. i
am here to teach things. oh, are you? what sort of things? there was a pause, then. matthew hasn t
words for them -- he doesn t understand them. not, perhaps, a very successful teacher? not yet. matthew is too
young. he can only think in too simple words for difficult ideas. if i think in maths, or physic, we
do not meet. even numbers are difficult. this is a good thing, i mean, lucky, i have quoted the above
exchanges as closely as i can remember in order to give some idea of what i was up against, and
50 /"U5iif.V III5" ¢"0""¢"<"ii0"3 and Simplifications from now on. a word-for-word record would be impossible. the usual words and usages
came easily enough, but less familiar words brought hold-ups. add to that the necessity to wade through a mess of
matthew s favourite, and not very specific, adiectives: sort-of, kind-of, and i-mean, and the conversation became so intricate that
