work or conduct business only because they are after the money. They enioy their work or their business. They find pleasure in

it. And this is the true meaning of capitalism: the abolition of the artificial distinction between work and leisure and the pursuit

of both with the same zeal and satisfaction. Above all, the (increasing) liberty to do so whenever, wherever, with whomever you choose.

Lies and Lying All people lie some of the time. They use words to convey their lies while their body language usually

gives them away. This is curious. why did evolution prefer this self defeating strategy? The answer lies in the causes of the

phenomenon, we lie for three main reasons and these give rise to three categories of lies: 1. The Empathic Lie - is

a lie told with the intention of sparing someone s feelings. ‘it is a face saving lie - but someone else s

face. ‘N is designed to prevent a loss of social status, the onslaught of social sanctions, the process of /udgement involved in

both. ‘7t is a derivative o our ability to put ourselves in someone else s shoes - that is, to empathize. ‘it

is intended to spare OUR feelings, which are bound to turn more and more unpleasant the more we sympathize with the social-mental

predicament of the person lied to. The reverse, brutal honesty, at all costs and in all circumstances - is a form of

sadistic impulse. The lie achieves its goal only if the recipient cooperates, does not actively seek the truth out and acquiescently participates

in the mini-drama unfolding in his honour. 2. The Egocentric Lie - is a lie intended to further the well being of

the liar. This can be achieved in one of two ways. The lie can help the liar to achieve his goals (a

Goal Seeking Lie} or to avoid embarrassment, humiliation, social sanctions, iudgement, criticism and, in general, unpleasant experiences related to social standing {a
Face Saving Lie). The Goal Seeking Lie is useful only when considering the liar as an individual, independent unit. The Face Saving

type is instrumental only in social situations. we can use the terms: Vndividualistic Lie and Social Lie respectively. 3. The Narcissistic Lie

- is separated from his brethren by its breadth and recursiveness, ‘7t is all-pervasive, ubiquitous, ever recurring, all encompassing, entangled and intertwined
with all the elements of the liar s life and personality. Moreover, it is a lie of whose nature the liar is

not aware and he is convinced of its truth. But the people surrounding the Narcissist liar notice the lie. The Narcissist-liar is

rather like a hunchback without a mirror. He does not believe in the reality of his own hump. ‘it seems that where

the liar does not believe his own lies - he succeeds in convincing his victims rather effectively, when he does believe in

his own inventions - he fails miserably at trapping his fellow men. Much more about the False Self (the lie that underlies

the personality of the Narcissist) in ‘Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited‘ and the FAQ section thereof. Life, Human The preservation of
human life is the ultimate value, a pillar of ethics and the foundation of all morality. This held true in most cultures

and societies throughout history. On first impression, the last sentence sounds patently wrong. we all know about human collectives that regarded human
lives as dispensable, that murdered and tortured, that cleansed and annihilated whole populations in recurrent genocides. Surely, these defy the aforementioned statement.’
Liberal philosophies claim that human life was treated as a prime value throughout the ages. Authoritarian regimes do not contest the over-riding
importance of this value. Life is sacred, valuable, to be cherished and preserved. 8ut, in totalitarian societies, it can be deferred, subsumed,

subiected to higher goals, quantized, and, therefore, applied with differential rigor in the following circumstances: 1. Quantitative - when a lesser evil
prevents a greater one. Sacrificing the lives of the few to save the lives of the many is a principle enshrined and

embedded in activities such as war and medicinal care. All cultures, no matter how steeped (or rooted) in liberal lore accept it.

They all send soldiers to die to save the more numerous civilian population. Medical doctors sacrifice lives daily, to save others. 7t

is boils down to a quantitative assessment (‘the numerical ratio between those saved and those sacrificed‘), and to questions of quality (‘are

there privileged lives whose saving or preservation is worth the sacrifice of others lives?‘) and of evaluation (no one can safely predict

the results of such moral dilemmas - will lives be saved as the result of the sacrifice.’). 2. Temporal - when sacrificing

life (voluntarily or not) in the present secures a better life for others in the future. These future lives need not be

more numerous than the lives sacrificed. A life in the future immediately acquires the connotation of youth in need of protection. 9t

is the old sacrificed for the sake of the new, a trade off between those who already had their share of life

- and those who hadn t. ‘it is the bloody equivalent of a savings plan: one defers present consumption to the future.

The mirror image of this temporal argument belongs to the third group {see next), the qualitative one. ‘it prefers to sacrifice a

life in the present so that another life, also in the present, will continue to exist in the future. Abortion is an

instance of this approach: the life of the child is sacrificed to secure the future well-being of the mother. ‘7n ﬂudaism, it

is forbidden to kill a female bird. Better to kill its off-spring. The mother has the potential to compensate for this loss

of life by bringing giving birth to other chicks. 3. Qualitative - This is an especially vicious variant because it purports to

endow subiective notions and views with 'scientific' obiectivity. People are iudged to belong to different qualitative groups (classified by race, skin color,
birth, gender, age, wealth, or other arbitrary parameters). The result of this immoral taxonomy is that the lives of the ‘lesser’ brands

of humans are considered less 'weighty‘ and worthy than the lives of the upper grades of humanity. The former are therefore sacrificed

to benefit the latter. The Fews in Nazi occupied Europe, the black slaves in America, the aborigines in Australia are three examples

of such pernicious thinking. 4. Utilitarian - when the sacrifice of one life brings another person material or other benefits. This is

the thinking {and action) which characterizes psychopaths and sociopathic criminals, for instance, For them, life is a tradable commodity and it can
be exchanged against inanimate goods and services. Money and drugs are bartered for life. Life, Right to 7. The Right to Life

Generations of malleable Vsraeli children are brought up on the story of the misnamed ﬂewish settlement Tel-Hai (‘Mount of Life‘), ‘7srael s

Alamo. There, among the picturesque valleys of the Galilee, a one-armed hero named ioseph Trumpeldor is said to have died, eight decades

ago, from an Arab stray bullet, mumbling: “it is good to die for our country.‘ 9udaism is dubbed ‘A Teaching of Life‘

- but it would seem that the sanctity of life can and does take a back seat to some overriding values.

