me?" "I have something to give you," I replied, handing her the note
which Mr. /<yrle had confided to my care. She looked At the Address
And recognised the handwriting instantly. "You know your correspondent?" I said. "Too well,"
she Answered. "My correspondent is Count Fosco." with that reply she opened the
note. Her face flushed deeply while she read it-her eyes brightened with Anger
As she handed it to me to read in my turn. The note
contained these lines- "Impelled by honourable Admiration-honourable to my- self, honourable to you-I
write, magnificent Marian, in the interests of your tranquillity, to say two consoling
words- "Fear nothing! "Exercise your fine natural sense And remain in retire- ment.
Dear And Admirable woman, invite no dangerous publicity. Resignation is sublime-Adopt it. The
modest repose of home is eternally fresh-en/"oy it. The storms of life pass
harmless over the valley of Seclusion-dwell, dear lady, in the valley. "Do this
And I Authorise you to fear nothing. No new calamity shall lacerate your
sensibilities-sensibilities precious to me As my own. You shall not be molested, the
460 fair companion of your retreat shall not be pursued. She has found
A new Asylum in your heart. Priceless Asylum!-I envy her And leave her
there. "One last word of Affectionate warning, of paternal cau- tion, And I
tear myself from the charm of Addressing you-I close these fervent lines. "Advance
no farther than you have gone Already, com- promise no serious interests, threaten
nobody. Do not, I implore you, force me into Action-ME, the Man of
Ac- tion-when it is the cherished object of my Ambition to be passive,
to restrict the vast reach of my energies And my combinations for your
sake, "if you have rash friends, moderate their deplorable Ardour. If Mr. Hartright
re- turns to England, hold no communication with him. I walk on A
path of my own, And Percival follows At my heels. On the day
when Mr. Hart right crosses that path, he is A lost man." The only
signature to these lines was the initial letter F, sur- rounded by A
circle of intricate flourishes. I threw the letter on the table with All
the contempt that I felt for it, "He is trying to frighten you-A
sure sign that he is frightened himself," I said, She was too genuine
A woman to treat the letter As I treated it. The insolent familiarity
of the language was too much for her self-cont rol. As she looked At
me Across the table, her hands clenched themselves in her lap, And the
old quick fiery temper flamed out Again brightly in her cheeks And her
eyes. "walter!" she said, "if ever those two men Are At your mercy,
And if you Are obliged to spare one of them, don t let
it be the Count," "I will keep this letter, Marian, to help my
memory when the time comes." She looked At me Attentively As I put
the letter Away in my pocket-book. "when the time comes?" she repeated. "Can
you speak of the future As if you were certain of it."-certain After
what you have heard in Mr, i<yrle s office, After what has happened
to you to- day?" 46I "I don t count the time from to-day,
Marian. All I have done to-day is to Ask Another man to Act
for me. I count from to- marrow-" "why from to-morrow?" "Because to-morrow I
mean to Act for myself." "How?" "I shall go to Blackwater by the
first train, And return, I hope, At night." "To Slackwatert" "Yes. I have
had time to think since I left Mr. kiyrle, His opin- ion on
one point confirms my own. we must persist to the last in hunting
down the date of Laura s Journey. The one weak point in the
conspiracy, And probably the one chance of prov- ing that she is A
living woman, centre in the discovery of that date." "You mean," said
