figures; but no violence -- above all, no violence. the bishop was an ecclesiastic, and he was a recluse. he

therefore did not understand what men are like when the passion of fighting is roused in them. he dreamed of

a bloodless revolution; he pictured the men voluntarily confessing the wisdom and the truth of the old religion. the event
proved that all human institutions rest on force, and cannot be upset without the employment of force. to be sure,

women cannot fight; but they had on their side the aid of superstition and the strong arms of the men

whom they led in superstitious chains. upstairs one of the girls played and sang old songs: the words were strange;

words and air went direct to the heart. lord chester listened disturbed and anxious, yet exultant. the professor pressed his
hand, ‘it is death or success,‘ she whispered. ‘be of good cheer,’ in either event you shall be counted noble

among the men to come.‘ when grace ingleby wished him good-night, she held his hand in hers with the firm

grasp of a sister. ‘you are one of us,‘ she said frankly. ‘in this house we are all brothers and

sisters in hope and in religion. and if they found us out,‘ she added with a laugh, ‘we should be

brothers and sisters in death. courage, my lord! there is all to gain.‘ faith ingleby, the younger sister, who had

less ardour for the cause than for the men who were pledged to it, whispered low, as he took her

hand, -- ‘we know all about lady carlyon; and we pray daily for her, and for you. mother says she

is worthy to -- become -- to be raised -- to be -- ' ‘what?’ he asked, reddening; for the

girl hesitated and looked at him with a kind of awe. ‘queen of england.‘ ‘don t anticipate, faith,‘ said algy.

‘considering, however, what we have come out of, it strikes me that we have nothing to lose, whatever we may

gain. come, chester, we want to have a quiet talk together as soon as the bishop goes to bed.‘ --

-- they talked for nearly the whole night. there was so much to say; one subject after another was started;

there were so many chances to consider, -- that it was four o clock when they parted. algy found, somewhere

or other, a bottle of champagne. 'come,‘ he cried, ‘a stirrup-cup! i drink to the day when the 'king shall

en/'oy his own again. ' 'algy!' said lord chester. ‘to think that you have deceived me!‘ ‘to think,‘ he replied

laughing, ‘that we have dreamed of this day so long! what would our revolution be worth unless we were to

have our hereditary and rightful king for leader! yet, i confess it was hard to see you drawn daily closer

to us, and not to hold out hands to drag you in -- long ago. yes, the professor was right.

she is always right. she glories in her obedience to the bishop, but -- whisper, -- we all know very

well that the bishop does nothing without consulting her first, and nothing that she does not agree with. don t

be too sure, dear boy, about the supremacy of man.‘ at seven in the morning, lord chester was roused from

an extremely disagreeable dream. he was, in this vision, being led off to execution, in company with the bishop, constance,
the professor, and grace ingleby. the duchess of dunstanburgh headed the procession, carrying the ropes in her own illustrious hand,
her face was terrible in its sternness. the chancellor was there, pointing skinny fingers, and saying 'yah!‘ before him, within
five minutes walk, stood five tall and comely gallows, with running tackle beautifully arranged; also, in case there should be
any preference expressed by the criminals for fancy methods of execution, there were stakes and fagots, guillotines, wheels to be
broken upon, men with masks, and other accessories of public execution. it was therefore a relief, on opening his eyes,

to discover that he was as yet only a peaceful guest of professor ingleby, and that the great revolt had

not yet begun. ‘at all events,‘ he said cheerfully, ‘i shall have the excitement of the attempt, if i am

to be hanged or beheaded for it. and most certainly it will be less disagreeable to be hanged than to

marry the duchess. perhaps even there may be, if one is lucky, an opportunity of telling her so. a last

dying speech of that kind would be popular.‘ shaking off gloomy thoughts, therefore, he dressed hastily, and descended to the
hall, where most of the party of the preceding night were collected, waiting for him. the tinkling of a bell

which had awakened him now began again. algy dunquerque told him it was the bell for chapel. ‘but,‘ he added,

‘don t be afraid. it is not the kind of service we are accustomed to. there is no homily on

obedience; and, thank goodness, there is no perfect woman here!‘ the chapel was a long room, fitted simply with a

few benches, a table at the east end, a brass eagle for lectern, and some books. the professor and the

girls were already in their places, and in a few moments the bishop himself appeared, in lawn-sleeves and surplice. for

the first time lord chester witnessed the spectacle of a man conducting the services. it gave a little shock and

a momentary sense of shame, which he shook off as unworthy. a greater shock was the simple service of the

ancient faith which followed. to begin with, there were no flowers, no incense girls, no anthems, no pictures of sainted
women, no figures of the holy mother, no veiled perfect woman on an altar crowned with roses; and there were

no genuflections, no symbolical robes, no mystic whisperings, no change of dress, no pretence at mysterious powers. all was perfectly
simple -- a few prayers, a lesson from a great book, a hymn, and then a short address. the

