particles or waves. in fact," he leaned closer, "there s a thing called wave-particle duality, where we believe they are
waves and particles at the same time. imagine that!" kathy feigned an expression of astonishment, and arnold leaned ever more
closely to her. "everything is governed by particles," he continued. "even us. even us." the body is the most amazing
machine ever built and the brain is the control unit. do you know, some people say we have no free
will? and i concur. our brains are simply machines made of these particles built up into nerve cells called neurons,
and our apparently free choices are simply random choices between different neurons made by electrical signals in our brains- and
that is it! randomness: the law of the universe!" arnold opened his mouth into a wide grin as if expecting
kathy to fall at his feet in worship of his superior intellect; in reality, kathy appeared only faintly interested. she
was trying to please her new friend by keeping a look of interest plastered across her face but his words
bored her and her acting abilities were limited. in truth, she had been expecting something more impressive from a man
who carried himself so proudly, sensing kathy s lack of enthusiasm, arnold fell into a sort of sulk and fell
silent, kathy noticed a shadow pass briefly across his face as if an inner dark side was flashing before her:
he had, for a second, taken on the appearance of someone much creepier and moodier than she had seen him
before. yet it lasted but a second and he soon returned to his normal self: pompous and self-important, with an
undeserved sense of superiority, but unthreatening. kathy hoped it would not happen again. he turned the ignition and set off,
finally, it must be said that he was in no hurry to reach their destination. the car was cruising steadily
down the road, at least ten miles an hour below the speed limit. the iourney passed in silence for some
time. it was, however, a pleasant silence and kathy soon relaxed into her seat again. she even began to en/"oy
the ride. her driver was no longer talking to her, so she used the time to gaze out of the
window at the neighbourhood they Were passing through. it just so happened that they were presently driving through the old
neighbourhood where she grew up. through the window she could see her old secondary school, st. michael s grammar school.
it had been a fairly exclusive and reclusive school which, like all grammar schools, acted in some manner as a
shield to the outside world. this had its advantages: she had heard frightful stories from the local comprehensive school of
bullying, staff-pupil relationships, knives and drugs. it shamed her to this day to admit that she had been a bit
of a snob in her youth. upon leaving compulsory education, she had begun to socialise more with former comprehensive pupils
and finally learnt that most important of lessons: your origin and schooling do not determine Your personality or worth in
society, in hindsight, in fact, she realised that many of her current friends from common backgrounds were far nicer people
than those she had known while at the grammar school. she had been a bit of an over-achiever in her
schooldays... but, no, why do they call it over achiever? she suddenly thought to herself. is there some acceptable limit
to achievement, beyond which you should not pass? the thought occurred to her to be quite odd- for what is
an over-achiever? , she continued. she surveyed her school day successes: for one, her talent for iournalism and investigation had
manifested itself at a young age when she began to work for the school newspaper, "news4u". well, that s what
it had been called when she began: she had always found such titles, using numbers instead of words in an
attempt to appeal to the younger generation, quite patronising. as soon as she became editor of the paper, she changed
the name to the more respectable the tribune . it didn t help increase readership (in fact, some pupils complained
that the change of name was simply pretentious} but her following actions, such as creating special music and sport sections
within the paper, as well as adding a ioke and comedy section, did make the paper somewhat more popular. her
talent for investigation had shown itself during this period of her life. there had been a scandal in her last
year involving the headmaster having an affair with one of the students, which would have remained hidden, had it not
been for her powers of investigation. much was made of it at the time: it hadn t even entered the
rumour mill when it was published and the whole school had been in shock. nobody knew quite how she found
out, and she liked to keep it that way- she enjoyed the idea of her enemies being in fear of
her hidden prowess and quite fancied herself as a sort of ninja of words . kathy was enioying reminiscing about
her childhood when arnold tapped her on the shoulder. he was apparently eager to end the silence and start a
conversation with her. as she turned, she could see him looking at her with one of his unreadable stares and
felt naked before him, as if he were seeing her whole being simply by turning his eyes towards her, of
course, he was not, but such was the impression he made. it felt as if he was looking down on
her, too, and she began to feel uncomfortable once more. yet his conversation was simple. "where are you from?" he
began, "around here," she smiled nervously. "we ve just passed my old school, actually." "ah, the grammar school?" asked arnold.
"yes," confirmed kathy. at this he turned his eyes away from kathy and back to his driving. it was a
relief to be freed from his captivating glare. "i went to a catholic school," he began. he almost spat
