cares not that holy Piety should be his, nor takes the counsel with Good Thought, 0 Mazda, 3 And in

this belief {of ours}, 0 Mazda, Right is laid down, for blessing, in the heresy the Lie, for ruin. Therefore

9 strive for the fellowship of Good Thought, 9 forbid all intercourse with the Liar. 4 They who make the

increase of violence and cruelty with their tongues, the foes of cattle-nurture among its friends; whose ill deeds prevail, not
their good deeds: these (shall be) in the house of the Daevas, {the place for) the Self of the Liar.

5 But he, 0 Mazda, - happiness and satiety be his who links his own Self with Good Thought, being

through Right an intimate of Piety. And with all these (may 9 be) in Thy Dominion, Ahura. 6 9 beseech

you twain, 0 Mazda and the Right, to say what are the Plans of your will, that we may discern

how we might teach the Religion of such as you, O Ahura. 7 And this let Good Thought hear, 0

Mazda, let the Right hear, do thou also listen, 0 Ahura, which men of the brotherhood, what noble is it

according to the Law who brings to the community fame. 8 On Frashaoshtra do thou bestow the most gladsome fellowship
with the Right - this 9 ask thee, 0 Mazda Ahura - and on myself the hold on what is

good in thy Dominion. To all eternity we would be thy messengers. 9 Let the helper hear the ordinance, he

that is created to bring deliverance. The man of right words is no regarder of fellowship with the Liar, if

they that are partake:-5 of Right are to make their Selves partake in the best reward at the ﬂudgment, O

Famaspa. 98 .7 YASNA 49. 10 And this, 0 Mazda, will 9 put in thy care within thy House -

the Good Thought and the souls of the Righteous, their worship, their Piety and zeal, that thou mayst guard it,

0 thou mighty Dominion, with abiding power. 11 But these that are of an evil dominion, of evil deeds, evil

words, evil Self, and evil thought, Liars, the Souls go to meet them with evil food; in the House of

the Lie they shall be meet inhabitants. 12 what help hast thou, 0 Right, for Zarathushtra that calls upon me?

what hast thou, Good Thought? -- for me who with praises seeks your favor, 0 Mazda Ahura, longing for that
which is best in your possession. -- Yasna 49 -- .7 YASNA 50, 1 Zarathushtra: (an my soul count on

any one for help? who is there found for my herd, who for myself a protector, indeed, at my call

other than the Right and thyself. 0 Mazda Ahura, and the 8est Thought.’ 2 How, 0 Mazda, should one desire

the luck-bringing cattle, one who would fain it would come to him with the pasture.’(Mazda:} They that live uprightly according
to the Right among the many that look upon the sun, those whom they stand in iudgment, 9 will settle

in the dwellings of the wise. 3 izarathushtrai} So this (reward) shall come to him through the Right, 0 Mazda,

(this reward) which by the Dominion and Good Thought he promised, whomsoever by the power of his Destiny prospers the
neighboring possession that now the Liar holds. 4 9 will worship you with praise, 0 Mazda Ahura, ioined with Right
and Best Thought and Dominion, that they, desired of pious men, may stand as ﬂudges on the path of the

obedient unto the House of Song. 5 Assured by you, 0 Mazda Ahura and Right, are the pointings of the

hand - since you are well-disposed to your prophet - which shall bring us to bliss, together with visible manifest

help. 6 The prophet Zarathushtra, 0 Mazda, who lifts up his voice in worship, as friend of Asha - may

the Creator of wisdom teach me his ordinances through Good Thought, that my tongue may have a pathway, 7 For
you 9 will harness the swiftest steeds, stout and strong, by the promptings of your praise, that ye may come

hither, 0 Mazda, Right, and Good thought. 8 Ever with verses that are recognized as those of pious zeal 9

will come before you with outstretched hands, 0 Mazda, before you, O thou Right, with worship of the faithful man,
before you with all the capacity of Good Thought. 9 with those prayers 9 would come and praise you, 0

Mazda and thou Right, with actions of Good Thought. 9f 9 be master of my own destiny as 9 will,

then will 9 take thought for the portion of the wise in the same. 100 ? YASNA 50. 10 Those

actions that 9 shall achieve and those done aforetime, and those, 0 Good Thought, that are precious in thy sight,

the rays of the sun, the shimmering uprisings of the days, all is for your praise, O thou Right and

Mazda Ahura. 11 Your praiser, Mazda, will 9 declare myself and be, so long, 0 Right, as 9 have strength

and power. May the Creator of the world accomplish through Good Thought its fulfillment of all that most perfectly answers
to his will. -- Yasna 50 -- .7 YASNA 51. 1 The good, the precious Dominion, as a most surpassing

portion, shall Right achieve for him that with zeal accomplishes what is best through his actions, 0 Mazda. This will
9 now work out for us. 2 Before all, 0 Mazda Ahura, assure me the Dominion of your possession, 0

Right, and what is thine, 0 Piety. Your {Dominion} of blessing give through Good Thought to him that prays. 3

Let your ears attend to those who in their deeds and utterances hold to your words, Ahura and Right, to

those of Good Thought, for whom thou, Mazda, art the first teacher. 4 where is the recompense for wrong to

be found, where pardon for the same? where shall they attain the Right? where is the holy Piety, where Best
Thought? Thy Dominions, where are they, 0 Mazda? 5 All this (9) ask, whether the husbandman shall find cattle in
accordance with Right, he that is perfect in action, a man of understanding, when he prays to him, who hath
promised unto the wise the true ﬂudge, in that he is Lord of the two destinies... 6 Even he, Ahura

Mazda, who through his Dominion appoints what is better than good to him that is attached to his will, but

what is worse than evil to him that obeys him not, at the last end of life. 7 Give

