else. In Germany you must do what everybody else does, but you may
think as you choose. They re both very good things. I personally prefer
freedom of thought. 8ut in England you get neither: you re ground down
by convention. You can t think as you like and you can t
act as you like. That s because it s a democratic nation. I
expect America s worse. 185 of 1241 Of Human Bondage He leaned back
cautiously, for the chair on which he sat had a ricketty leg, and
it was disconcerting when a rhetorical flourish was interrupted by a sudden fall
to the floor. I ought to go back to England this year, but
if I can scrape together enough to keep body and soul on speaking
terms I shall stay another twelve months. But then I shall have to
go. And I must leave all this -he waved his arm round the
dirty garret, with its unmade bed, the clothes lying on the floor, a
row of empty beer bottles against the wall, piles of unbound, ragged books
in every corner- for some provincial university where I shall try and get
a chair of philology. And I shall play tennis and go to tea-parties.
He interrupted himself and gave Philip, very neatly dressed, with a clean collar
on and his hair well-brushed, a quizzical look. And, my God." I shall
have to wash, Philip reddened, fﬁeling his own spruceness an intolerable reproach; for
of late he had begun to pay some attention to his toilet, and
he had come out from England with a pretty selection of ties. The
summer came upon the country like a conqueror. Each day was beautiful. The
sky had an arrogant blue which goaded the nerves like a spur. The
green of the trees in the Anlage was violent and crude; and the
houses, 186 of 1241 Of Human Bondage when the sun caught them, had
a dazzling white which stimulated till it hurt. Sometimes on his way back
from wharton Philip would sit in the shade on one of the benches
in the Anlage, enjoying the coolness and watching the patterns of light which
the sun, shining through the leaves, made on the ground. His soul danced
with delight as gaily as the sunbeams. He revelled in those moments of
idleness stolen from his work. Sometimes he sauntered through the streets of the
old town. He looked with awe at the students of the corps, their
cheeks gashed and red, who swaggered about in their coloured caps. In the
afternoons he wandered about the hills with the girls in the Frau Professor
s house, and sometimes they "went up the river and had tea in
a leafy beer-garden. In the evenings they walked round and round the Stadtgarten,
listening to the band. Philip soon learned the various interests of the household.
Fraulein Thekla, the professor s elder daughter, was engaged to a man in
England who had spent twelve months in the house to learn German, and
their marriage was to take place at the end of the year. But
the young man wrote that his father, an india-rubber merchant who lived in
Slough, did not approve of the union, and Fraulein Thekla was often in
tears. Sometimes she and her 18I of 1241 Of Human Bondage mother might
be seen, with stern eyes and determined mouths, looking over the letters of
the reluctant lover. Thekla painted in water colour, and occasionally she and Philip,
with another of the girls to keep them company, would go out and
paint little pictures. The pretty Fraulein Hedwig had amorous troubles too. She was
the daughter of a merchant in Berlin and a dashing hussar had fallen
in love with her, a von if you please: but his parents opposed
a marriage with a person of her condition, and she had been sent
to Heidelberg to forget him. She could never, never do this, and
