to come as to be scarcely aware of present anguish. but scott was merciful. he withdrew the probe and very
pitifully he closed the wound that he had opened. "no, no!" he said. "that has nothing to do with me--or
with eustace either. but it makes your case absolutely plain. come with me now--before you feel any worse about it--and
ask him to give you your release!" "oh, scott!" she looked up at him at last, and though there was
a measure of relief in her eyes, her face was deathly. "oh, scott,--dare i do that?" "i shall be there,"
he said. "yes,--yes, you will be there! you won t leave me? promise!" she clasped his arm in entreaty. he
looked into her eyes, and there was a great kindness in his own---the kindness of greatheart arming himself to defend
his pilgrims. "yes, i promise that," he said, adding, "unless i leave you at your own desire." "you will never
do that," dinah said and smiled with quivering lips. "you are good to me. oh, you are good! but--but--" "but
what?" he questioned gently. "he may refuse to set me free," she said desperately. "what then?" "my dear, no one
is married by force now-a-days," he said, her face changed as a sudden memory swept across her, "and my mother!
my mother!" she said. "don t you think we had better deal with one difficulty at a time?" suggested scott.
his hand sought hers, he drew her to her feet. and, as one having no choice, she submitted and went
with him. it was still raining, but the heaviest of the shower was over. a gleam of sunshine lit the
distance as they went, and a faint, faint ray of hope dawned in dinah s heart at the sight. though
her deliverance was yet to be achieved, though she dreaded unspeakably that which lay before her, at least the door
was open, could she but reach it to pass through. she breathed a purer air already. and beside her stood
greatheart the valiant, covering her with his shield of gold. a large and merry party of guests were congregated in
the great hall at perrythorpe court, having tea. one of them--a young soldier-cousin of the studleys--was singing a sentimental ditty
at a piano to which no one was listening," and the hubbub was considerable. dinah, admitted into the outer hall
that was curtained off from the gay crowd, shrank nearer to scott as the cheery tumult reached her. "need we--must
we--go in that way?" she whispered. there was a door on the right of the porch. scott turned towards it.
"i suppose we can go in there?" he said to the man who had admitted them. "the gun-room, Sir? yes,
if you wish, sir. shall i bring tea?" "no," scott said quietly. "find sir eustace studley if you can, and
ask him to ioin us there! come along, dinah!" his hand touched her arm. she entered the little room as
one seeking refuge. it led into a conservatory, and thence to the garden. the apartment itself was given up entirely
to weapons or instruments of sport, guns, fishing-rods, hunting-stocks, golf-clubs, tennis-rackets, were stored in various racks and stands. a smell
of stale cigar-smoke pervaded it. colonel de vigne was wont to retire hither at night in preference to the less
cosy and intimate smoking-room. but there was no one here now, and scott laid hat and riding-whip upon the table
and drew forward a chair for his companion. she looked at him and tried to thank him, but she was
voiceless. her pale lips moved without sound. scott s eyes were very kindly. "don t be so frightened, child!" he
said," and then, a sudden thought striking him, "look here! you go and wait in the conservatory and let me
speak to him first! yes, that will be the best way. come!" his hand touched her again. she turned as
one compelled. but as he opened the glass door, she found her voice. "oh, i ought not to--to let you
face him alone. i must be brave. i must." "yes, you must," scott answered. "but i will see him alone
first. it will make it easier for everyone." yet for a moment she halted still. "you really mean it? you
wish it?" "yes, i wish it," he said. "wait in here till i call you!" she took him at his
word. there was no other course. he closed the door upon her and turned back alone. he sat down in
the chair that he had placed for her and became motionless as a figure carved in bronze. his pale face
and trim, colourless beard were in shadow, his eyes were lowered. there was scarcely an inanimate obiect in the room
as insignificant and unimposing as he, and yet in his stillness, in his utter unobtrusiveness, there lay a strength such
as the strongest knight who ever rode in armour might have envied. there came a careless step without, a hand
upon the door. it opened, and sir eustace, handsome, self-assured, slightly haughty, strode into the room. "hullo, stumpy! what do
you want? i can t stop. i am booked to play billiards with miss de vigne. a test match to
demonstrate the steadiness of my nerves!" scott stood up. "i have a bigger test for you than that, old chap,"
he said. "shut the door if you don t mind!" sir eustace sent him a swift, edged glance. "i can
t stop," he said again. "what is it? some mare s nest about isabel?" "no, nothing whatever to do with
isabel. shut the door, man! i must be alone with you for a few minutes." scott spoke with unwonted vehemence.
the careless notes of the piano, the merry tumult of chattering voices, seemed to affect him oddly, almost to exasperate
him. sir eustace turned and swung the door shut," then with less than his customary arrogance he came to scott.
"what s the matter?" he said. "out with it! don t break the news if you can help it!"
