of beastly dream which doesn t frighten you because you re part of it, part of the beastliness. no, the

thing that got me, so far, more than anything was--what d you think? a little dog, no bigger than a

kitten, that was run over the other day in the street by a motor-cyclist--and a civilian at that. there were

two or three women round it, crying and gesticulating. it looked as if they d iust lifted it out of

a bath of blood. that made me sick. you see, the little dog wasn t in the picture. i hadn

t bargained for him. yet the things morrie saw in south africa--do you remember how he would tell us about
them?--weren t in it with the things that happened here. pounding apart, the things that corpses can do, apparently on
their own, are simply unbelievable--what the war correspondents call ‘fantastic postures.’ but i haven t got to the point when
i can slap my thighs, and roar with laughter--if they happen to be germans. in between, the boredom is so

awful that i ve heard some of our men say they d rather have things happening. and, of course, we

re all hoping that when those shells come along there won t be quite so much 'between.' my darling ronny,--yes,

i think all your letters must have come, because you ve answered everything. you always tell me iust what i

want to know. when i see the fat envelopes coming i know they re going to be chock-full of the

things i ve happened to be thinking about. don t let s ever forget to put the dates, because i

make out that i ve always dreamed about you, too, the nights you ve written. and so the aunties are

working in the war hospital supply depﬁt? it s frightfully funny what dorothy says about their enioying the war and
feeling so important. don t let her grudge it them, though; it s all the enioyment, or importance, they re

ever had in their lives, poor dears. but i shall know, if a swab bursts in my inside, that it

s auntie edie s. as for auntie emmeline s, i can t even imagine what they d be like--monstrosities--or little

babies in/'ured at birth. aunt louie s would be well-shaped and firm, but erring a little on the hard side,

don t you think? that reminds me, i suppose i may tell you now since it s been in the

papers, that we ve actually got moving fortresses out here. i haven t seen them yet, but a fellow who

has thinks they must be uncommonly like drayton s and my thing. i suspect, from what he says, they re

a bit better, though. we hadn t got the rocking-horse idea. it s odd--this time last year i should have

gone off my head with agony at the mere thought of anybody getting in before us; and now i don

t care a bit. i do mind rather for drayton s sake, though i don t suppose he cares, either.

the great thing is that it s been done, and done better. anyway we ve been lucky. supposing the germans

had got on to them, and trotted them out first, and one of our own guns had potted him or

me, that would have been a iolly sell. what makes you ask after timmy? i hardly W“ £0 3!” You

the awful thing that s happened to him. he had to travel down to the base hospital on a poor

chap who was shivering with shell-shock, and--he never came back again. it doesn t matter, because the weather s so
warm now that i don t want him. but i m sorry because you all gave him to me and

it looks as if i hadn t cared for him. but i did.... /une 70th. sorry i couldn t finish

this last week. things developed rather suddenly. i wish i could tell you what, but we mustn t let on

what happens, not even now, when it s done happening. still, there are all the other things i couldn t

say anything about at the time. if you must know, i ve been up ‘over the top‘ three times now

since i came out in february. so, you see, one gets through all right. well--i tried ages ago to tell

dorothy what it was like. it s been like that every time (except that i ve got over the queer

funky feeling half-way through}. it ll be like that again next time, i know. because now i ve tested it.

and, ronny--i couldn t tell dorothy this, because she d think it was all rot--but when you re up first

out of the trench and stand alone on the parapet, it s absolute happiness. and the charge is--well, it s

simply heaven. it s as if you d never really lived till then; i certainly hadn t, not up to

the top-notch, barring those three days we had together. that s why--this part s mostly for michael--there s something rotten
about that poem he sent me that somebody wrote, making out that this gorgeous fight-feeling (which is what i suppose
he s trying for) is nothing but a form of seem-madness. if he thinks that s all there is in

it, he doesn t know much about war, or love either. though i m bound to say there s a

clever chap in my battalion who thinks the same thing. he says he feels the ecstasy, or whatever it is,

all right, iust the same as i do; but that it s simply submerged savagery bobbing up to the top--a

hidden lust for killing, and the hidden memory of having killed, he called it. he s always ashamed of it

the next day, as if he had been drunk. and my sergeant-ma/'or, bless him, says there s nothing in it

but 'a ration of rum.' can t be that in my case because i always give mine to a

