became one of the first Buddhist nuns. Iust at this time however she remained in her house but Rahula, Gautam
s son, was converted. Gautam s father was aggrieved at this and asked Gautama to establish a rule that no
one should in future be admitted to the order without his parents consent. Gautama consented to this and made a
rule accordingly. On his way back to Raigrha, Gautama stopped for some time at Anupiya, a town belonging to the
Mallas. And while he was stopping there he made many converts both from the kcolian and from the Shakya tribe,
some of whom deserve special mention. Aniruddh, the Shakya, went to his mother and asked to be allowed to go
into the houseless state. His mother did not know how to stop him and so told him, "If Bhaddiya, the
Shakya, will renounce the world thou also mayest go forth into the houseless state." Aniruddha accordingly went to Bhaddiya and
it was decided that they should embrace the order in seven days. chulvagga, the Buddhist Sutra says: So Bhaddiya, the
Shakyara/", and Aniruddha, and Ananda and Bhagu and Kimball and Der/adatt /"ust as they had so often previously gone out
to the pleasure ground with fourfold array, and Upali the barber went with them, making seven in all. And when
they had gone some distance, they sent their retinue back and crossed over to the neighboring district and took off
their fine things and wrapped them in their robe and made a bundle of them and said to Upali the
barber; " Do you now, Upali, turn back. These things will be sufficient for you to live upon," But Upali
was of a different mind so all the seven went to Gautama and became converts. And when Bhaddiya had retired
into solitude, he exclaimed over and over, " 0 happiness! 0 happiness!" And on being asked the cause said: "Formerly,
Lord when I was a king I" had a guard, completely provided, both within and without my private apartments, both
within and without and town and within the borders of my country. Yet though "I was thus guarded and protected
"I was fearful, anxious, distrustful and alarmed. But bow, Lord, even in the forest at the foot of a tree
in solitude I am without fear or anxiety, trustful and not alarmed," I dwell at ease, subdued, secure, with mind
as peaceful as an antelope." Of these converts Ananda became the most intimate friend and companion of Gautama and after
his death led the band of 500 monks in chanting the Dharma in the council of Ra/"agrha, Upali, though barber
by birth, became an eminent member of the order and his name is often mentioned in connection with the Vinyapitak,
Devadatta became subsequently the rival and opponent of Gautama and is even said to have advised Aiatashatru, the prince of
Magadha, to kill his father Bimbisara and then attempted to kill Gautama himself. After spending his second Vas or rain)"
season in Raiagrha Gautama repaired to Sravasti, the capital of kiosalas, where Prasenaiit reigned as king. A wood called iaitvan
was presented to the Buddhists and Gautama often repaired and preached there. Gautam s instructions were always delivered orally and
preserved in the memory of the people like all the ancient books of India, although writing was known at this
time. The third Vas was also passed in Raiagrha and in the fourth year from the date of proclaiming is
creed Gautama crossed the Ganges, went to Vaisali and stopped in the Mahavana grove. Thence he is said to have
made a miraculous iourney through the air to settle a dispute between the Shakyas and iéolians about the water of
the Boundary River Rohini. "in the following year he again repaired to /éapilvastu and was present at the death of
his father, then .II years old. His widowed step mother Praiapati Gautami and his no less widowed wife Yashodhara had
now no ties to bind then to the world and insisted on ioining the order established by Gautama. The sage
had not yet admitted women to the order and was naturally most reluctant to do so. But his mother was
inexorable and followed him to Vaisali and begged to be admitted. Ananda pleaded her case but Gautama still replied: "
Enough, Ananda, Let it not please thee that women should be allowed to do so." But Ananda persisted and asked,
"Are women, Lord, capable when they have gone forth form the household life and entered the homeless state under the
doctrine and discipline proclaimed by the blessed one, are they capable of realizing the fruit of conversion, or of the
second path or of Arhat ship?".? There could be only one reply to this Honor to women has ever been
a part of religion in "India and salvation and heaven are not barred to the female sex by the Hindu
religion. "They are capable," reluctantly replied Gautama. And Praiapati and other ladies were admitted to the order as Bhikkhunee under
some rules making them strictly subordinate to Bhikkhu. After this Gautama retired to kﬁausambi near Prayag {Allahabad}. "In the sixth
year after spending the rains at kzausambi Gautama returned to Raiagrha, and /<shema the queen of Bimbisara was admitted to
the order. "in same year Gautama is said to have performed miracles at Sravasti and went to heaven to teach
Dharma to his mother who had died I days after his birth. In the eleventh year Gautama converted the Brahmin
Bharadvaia. "in the next year he undertook the longest iourney he had ever made and then preached the famous Mharahulsutan
to his son Rahula, then 18 years old. Two years later Rahula was admitted in the order. In the fifteenth
year he visited téapilat/astu again and addressed a discourse to his cousin Mahanama, who had succeeded Bhaddiya, the successor of
Shuddhodana. Gautam s father in law Suprabuddha, the king of /<oli, publicly abused Gautama for deserting Yashodhara but is said
to have been swallowed up by the earth shortly after. "in the seventeenth year he delivered discourse on the death
of Shrimati, a courtesan; in the next year he converted a weaver who had accidentally killed his daughter; in the
following year he released a deer caught in a snare and converted the angry hunter who had wanted to shoot
him." and in the twentieth year he similarly converted the famous robber Angulimala of the Chaliya forest. For twenty five
years more Gautama wandered through the Gangetic valley, preached piety and holy life to the poor, the lowly and misguided,
made converts among the high and the low, the rich and the poor and proclaimed his law wherever he
