singularity, somehow, he could never feel totally alone in the world. even understanding his felt need to believe in something
more able to control the raw forces of his environment, there were still times when he felt led by something
more than his own experience. religion provided a form in which to enclose that something. i, for some time, have
felt a need to strike a balance between these two systems. one that conserves all that i see to be
good in each, while deferring the felt need to choose between their apparent conflicts. i must somehow exercise the patience
to await what future insight might reveal. i must not close the door to additional understanding prematurely. but my curious
mind has been asking for some time, could there be a kind of unity that exists beyond our current understanding
that would make these systems but different emanations of a common denominator? science searches ever more deeply for that unity
of forces. religion claims that it has already found what science still searches so earnestly for. i ve always been
reluctant, for reasons that should become or might already be apparent, to share with ohures the kind of questions that
i ve asked as well as the answers that have come. but, it has become increasingly imperative of late, that
i cast aside all cautionary reticence. these understandings, so privately arrived at, and then sequestered, must not disappear for the
bible is the word of god, according to its adherents who avidly seek to practice its tenets; believers who accept
most of its propositions, with a tentative kind of reserve for some; and supporters who cannot imagine a more comprehensive
alternative. many, but not all of the first group characterize it as literally inerrant, without error. a maiority of the
middle group would wonder at the need of such a strict construction, while many of the third group, the supporters,
feel more comfortable seeing the bible only as a kind of symbolic representation of an ideal life, it is admittedly
a Work by many authors, brought to its present form over the centuries. there have been many efforts to categorize
it as to what form of literature it was meant to be. it has been put forth by some as
the history of a people. but, there are points of disagreement with ohure historical accounts regarding names of people and
places that should be common to both. elam, a middle-eastern city that seemed to have been mentioned only in the
bible was long thought to be an artificial construct, or possibly a case of misidentification. archaeologists recently discovered elam and
determined it to be a real entity. archaeological and similar processes have substantiated many ohure items originally known only from
the bible as also having historical validity. ohures have seen the bible as theology. to them it represents a statement
of belief that includes an account of a people, their origins, and their practice of the moral requirements that it
advocates. within the bible appear to be many non-literal stories that were meant to portray the rewards of adherence or
consequences of resistance to its precepts. the bible appears to have all of these facets and more, but there is
still much resistance to perceiving it as presented by some among the leadership of its adherents. the doctrine of inerrancy
is a manifestation of relatively recent origin regarding the bible, it was put forth in the early to middle 18005
as a clarification of belief at about the time that the discoveries provided by the scientific method began to diverge
sharply from the traditional biblical statements. this doctrine declared, in short, that the bible represented the literal "word of god"
and was therefore inerrant {without error} from its smallest part up to and including its entirety. i m sure adherents
felt this clarification necessary because of the increasing popularity of these new answers. and so, they resorted to a time-tested
biblical method of corroboration by looking back into the bible for earlier references that the word, as adherents declared it,
had also been so declared by ohures of their faith from the past. argument was offered, as on many ohure
occasions, that any attempt to prove a statement by references to the statement itself were circular in nature and proved
nothing without outside sources. those answers, it was further stated, were only convincing to those who already believed by faith
alone. this newly minted clarification of belief troubled the minds of many ohurewise ardent followers, who had been willing, over
a long period of time, to overlook the "apparent" contradictions found within this work. also, many unbelievers, who seem to
have always avidly looked for any and all possible obiects of derision, delightedly heaped scorn upon the adherents. among the
unbelievers were the following: agnostics: those who do not wish to debate the reality of a god-based system. atheists: those
who actively contend against that possibility, and converts to the scientific method." those who avidly profess that its answers have
superceded the old knowledge contained in the bible and ohure religious works. under such a devastating assault, some {including many
nominal believers} preferred to interpret the bible as having symbolic value only. this rubric was largely designed to sidestep the
maiority of criticism by agreeing with its critics. there would now, they claimed, be no need to argue for a
foundation in the actual history of the world. within it, converts to this new explanation saw biblical stories as selected
by their authors and ohures of high religious station to impart a code of morals and the wisdom of ages
past to its readers. the value of these stories need not depend upon being factual accounts of real-world events, but
upon being able to impart desirable behavior patterns to those who became convinced of their value. into this maelstrom of
controversy enters a new author bearing a gift of great insight given to him, he feels, from the most original
of all sources. five words, if understood in this new way of seeing the bible as a parable gives
