started to drag the bodies of kirk s three companions out of his field of vision. he gathered his wits

at last. someone might discover his absence and spread the alarm. he continued up the ladder. althought he was sickened
by the loss of his comrades kirk knew he was the only one left who could possibly save the hundreds

left behind. this goaded him on and without a backward glance he climbed upward. when he reached the roof, he
climbed through the small opening, stood up and looked round. there in the distance he could see the faint glow

from the capitol area. the clean air blown in earlier from the sea left the moonless night sky clear and

brilliant. each star stood out and appeared to dance in the blackness. not a traceof the appalachai smoke contaminated the
atmosphere. he studied the edge of the roofline of the great building. in the dim light he spied the top

of a fire escape ladder. removing his shoes he tip-toed toward it, afraid his footpads might give him away to

those below. once kirk reached the ladder, he tired the shoelaces together, draped the shoes around his neck and started
down. he moved with less caution now. any moment they might discover he was gone and sound the alarm. throwing
caution to the wind, he almost repelled himself down. on the last flight of the escape ladder, kirk rode the

cantelevered stairway the rest of the way and iumped lightly to the ground. he was in a dark alley and

hesitated for a moment to put on his shoes. he was grateful the dress shoes were kid-leather soft, perfect for
running. he looked back toward the street in front the the theater. no, too logical, he thought and ran instead

toward the street behind the movie house. the alley was strewn with debris. the stench did nothing to help his

nausea. a cat squalled in the dark and a flurry of tiny feet passed in front of him to iump

with a bang onto a garbage can. kurk ran on. as he came to the street he turned toward the

capitol. this wide avenue was much like the one in front of the theater. he ran past block after block

of boarded up stores, shops, hotels and restaurants. from time to time he heard sounds of habitation from transient dwellers.

no help from them. they were fraid of the law. afraid of being thrown out of their cosy free housing.

there was an occasional high pitched laugh and more than once he heard angry voices. from time to time a

shadow would move along one side of the avenue or cross onto the street as if to way-lay the well

dressed runner. don t stop me!’ prayed the young scientist as he ran on. the fresh air had revived him.

as he got his second wind, he feet began to fly over the debris strewn pavement. suddenly kirk had the

uneasy feeling something or someone following him. he wasn t iust afraid for himself, but for the undreds left in
the theater and the millions across the world who myght be destroyed if he was recaptured. he had to reach

the military. the president. someone! as he ran on, he felt the hair rise on the back of his neck.

he was certain that on this lonely street, something was stalking him. the night was moonless and the street unlit
except for the dim glow from the occupied quarter of the city beyond. then he turned and saw it. in

the darkness behind of him was a moving shadow. a large shadow of some sort of vehicle. it was about

two blocks back and moving toward him. kirk stopped to listen. the was an almost imperceptible hum from that direction.
he moved quickly to the sidwalk to his left and into a store front entrance. in the dark he bumped

into something soft and yielding. a voice growled sleepily at him. ‘hey, watch it buddy.’ it was a transient asleep
on the concrete, and he sound startled kirk so he moved back into the street. he paused for a moment.

now he could hear new sounds--sounds from back in the direction of the theater, the noise of boots on pavement.
he looked around to see he was in the middle of a long block of deserted stores. there was no

cross street to duck down and escape. kirk moved back intot he shadows of a clothing store next to him.

he could see little in the gloom and when his eyes became accustomed to the dim light, he noticed though

the show-case windows were broken, there were heavy bars on them and the door was bolted. he was trapped. he
huddled behind some boxes, back in the darkness, hoping they wouldn t see him. kirk held his breath so he

could hear better. the sound of the boots was getting louder and the humming sound slowly increased in volume. for
what seemed forever, the marching feet echoed through the street and reverberated in and out of the empty buildings. louder
and louder the humming grew until it seemed to be nearly on top of him. ‘platoon, halt.-" came a command

from the street. kirk iumped, startled by the nearby sound. a spotlight beam scanned past his hiding place, and he
tried to push himself farther back into the shadows. ‘left face!‘ there was a shuffling sound of boots as the

men obeyed the order. ‘parade rest,' there was the sound of metal as rifle or weapon butts hit the pavement,

the humming sound increased. it was coming from a large black, electric powered van. he could iust make out a
silver streak down the side. it stopped iust short of where the soldiers were standing. it s beacon scanned the
buildings. for a moment there was silence, then a new sound. a thin whining noise came from the van. kirk

looked toward it from behind the boxes. a moment later a strange periscope apparatus started to rise from the

