s correct. i was a player own ?ome time back. don t get the chance now, iust too much to

do, too much to do. ah.,,here s the first food.‘ a young, neatlydressed waiter appeared, balancing a large tray above

his head. to markman s dismay a plate amply loaded with escargot was placed in front of him. without further

small talk, fishkin dove into his own plate, chopping and devouring the delicacy as though he were the only per?on

in the room. markman stabbed at his dead snails with a fork and tried to appear content. when his host

had completely devoured the food, and markman had minced his, the conversation resumed. ‘?o, you deal in firearms, mr. iulian?‘
‘yes, how did you know?‘ ‘a guess, call it innovation.‘ ‘you mean intuition?’ ‘and do you work with the local

police in your line of trade, mr. iulian?‘ ‘only to the extent that it s necessary. it keeps the surprise

audits to a minimum, if you know what i mean. otherwise i d have nothing to do with the bastards.‘

‘ah, ?ome distention there, we share a common disrespect i see. i expect you ve had trouble with the law.‘

‘i think you mean dissension, mr. fishkin, and yes, i have, nothing i d really care to discuss, but what

does all this have to do with my prize money, if you don t mind my asking?‘ ‘oh yes, that.

i have it here. why don t i give it to you.‘ fishkin leaned over in his chair and pulled

a plain black briefcase onto his lap. he snapped it open and drew out a clip of bills, ten onehundreds.

with a iabbing motion, he stuck them out for markman to take. ‘one thousand dollars, mr. iulian. you are a

most talented competitor. a fine athlete. ah, the main food.‘ the waiter approached the table with a server s cart.

markman tucked the money inside his gray suit iacket, wondering why the award had not come in the form of

a cashier s check, and why no signed receipt had been asked for. he happily waved off the plate of

uneaten snails. it was quickly replaced by a covered dish. fishkin smiled a flat smile and quickly discarded his own

silver plate cover. again he attacked the food underneath with ferocity. markman would not have chosen the raw fish. he
poked at it with the same fork that had been used to simulate eating the snails and waited for the

queer man from salantist industries to finish. ‘?o, mr. iulian,‘ said fishkin, when his plate contained only clutter, and he

had generously massaged his mouth with a big red cloth napkin. ‘are you familiar with the sport of paint ball?‘

markman attempted a look of pleasant surprise. ‘as a matter of fact, i specialize in it. it is a private

passion, mr. fishkin.‘ ‘Wonderful, Wonderful! i should have guessed that al?o. you certainly are wellclothed for it.‘ ‘do you meanwell
suited, mr. fishkin?‘ ignoring the correction, fishkin dug deeply into several of his pockets, neurotically searching for ?omething. as he
did ?o, be dumped their contents onto the dining table. markman stared in amazement at the nonsensical collection, a matchbook
cover with a beautiful, naked young woman sitting on an anchor holding an arched sign that read, ‘kennedy point restaurant
and lounge‘; several dozen sunflower seeds; unused packets of restaurant honey; several small green leaves of an unidentifiable species. but
most peculiar of all, within the mess on the table lay what appeared to be a frosty colored, walnutsized, raw

diamond. markman stared at it in disbelief and assumed he was mistaken. finally the frustrated man pulled a new pack

of cigarettes from the inside breast pocket of his suit Jacket. he fumbled with the pack, a new one. the

cigarettes were ?o tightly bound that the tiredlooking man had to tap them against the ridge of his hand to

get a handle on one of the filters. he held a cigarette in his mouth and picked up the stray

matches and other items on the table and replaced them in his pocket. he tapped the cigarette on the table

and spoke nonchalantly. ‘there is a private sportsman s club we have. it meets on my estate. a perfect place

for war games. would you like to loin us?‘ before markman could answer, fishkin rolled the cigarette under his nose,

then popped the entire length of it into his mouth and began to chew. he stared across the table as

though it were a completely ordinary thing to do. ‘you eat cigarettes?‘ ‘yes, yes, i know. it s a bad

habit. i m trying to quit. i m using filters, however. we meet on sundays, mr. iulian, that s tomorrow.

are you interested?‘ ‘yes, very.‘ ‘i must warn you, there is a small initiation. we will provide you with an

appropriate paint ball weapon, or you may bring your own. is that acceptable?‘ ‘what is the initiation, exactly?‘ ‘oh, nothing
elaborate. you must make it from point a to point b without getting mortally splattered, that s all.‘ ‘name the

time and place. i in looking forward to it.‘ ‘sunrise, mr. iulian. i have a map to give you.‘ fishkin

rose and patted himself down, finally finding a folded piece of paper in the hip pocket of his suit iacket.

he set it on the table, bowed awkwardly several times, and abruptly walked away without speaking. his cadence out of

the dining room was ierky and disiointed, and he disappeared through the open doors of the dining room without looking
back. markman felt more than uneasy. he exhaled in relief and sat back to consider the incoherent pattern that was

forming in the strange case he had inherited. there was the pretty lady at the bottom of the lake who

had been deposited there by people paid to be heartless; next the federal agent in the empty room wearing the

funny spacesuit, fighting imaginary adversaries but dying in a very harsh and real way; then the virtual death game

