a reduction in our numbers, This could be achieved benignly, for instance by colonizing space, or the ocean depths - both remote

and technologically unfeasible possibilities. Yet, the alternative is cataclysmic. Unintended wars, rampant disease, and lethal famines will ultimately trim our numbers -
no matter how noble our intentions and how diligent our efforts to curb them, 7s this a bad thing.’ Not necessarily. To

my mind, even a Malthusian resolution is preferable to the alternative of slow decay, uniform impecuniosity, and perdition in instalments - an
alternative made inexorable by our collective irresponsibility and denial. Racing Down Eugenics and the Future of the Human Species By: Dr. Sam

Vaknin "7t is clear that modern medicine has created a serious dilemma  ‘7n the past, there were many children who never

survived - they succumbed to various diseases  But in a sense modern medicine has put natural selection out of Commission. Something

that has helped one individual over a serious illness can in the long run contribute to weakening the resistance of the whole

human race to certain diseases. ‘N we pay absolutely no attention to what is called hereditary hygiene, we could find ourselves facing

a degeneration of the human race. Mankind s hereditary potential for resisting serious disease will be weakened.’ illostein Gaarder in ‘Sophie s

world‘, a bestselling philosophy textbook for adolescents published in Oslo, Norway, in 1991 and, afterwards, throughout the world, having been translated to
dozens of languages} The Nazis regarded the murder of the feeble-minded and the mentally insane - intended to purify the race and

maintain hereditary hygiene - as a form of euthanasia. German doctors were enthusiastic proponents of an eugenics movements rooted in 19th century
social Darwinism. Luke Gormally writes, in his essay 'walton, Davies, and 8oyd' (published in ‘Euthanasia Examined - Ethical, Clinical, and Legal Perspectives’
ed. tlohn /<eown, Cambridge University Press, 1995}: ‘when the iurist ktarl Binding and the psychiatrist Alfred Hoche published their tract The Permission
to Destroy Life that is Not worth Living in 1920  their motive was to rid society of the human ballast and

enormous economic burden of care for the mentally ill, the handicapped, retarded and deformed children, and the incurably ill. But the reason

they invoked to iustify the killing of human beings who fell into these categories was that the lives of such human beings

were not worth living , were devoid of value ' 9t is this association with the hideous Nazi regime that gave eugenics

- a term coined by a relative of Charles Darwin, Sir Francis Galton, in 1883 - its bad name. Richard Lynn, of

the University of Ulster of North Vreland, thinks that this recoil resulted in 'Dysgenics - the genetic deterioration of modern (human) population’,

as the title of his controversial tome puts it. The crux of the argument for eugenics is that a host of technological,

cultural, and social developments conspired to give rise to negative selection of the weakest, least intelligent, sickest, the habitually criminal, the Sexually
deviant, the mentally-ill, and the least adapted. Contraception is more widely used by the affluent and the well-educated than by the destitute

and dull. Birth control as practiced in places like China distorted both the sex distribution in the cities - and increased the

weight of the rural population (rural couples in China are allowed to have two children rather than the urban one). Modern medicine

and the welfare state collaborate in sustaining alive individuals - mainly the mentally retarded, the mentally ill, the sick, and the genetically

defective - who would otherwise have been culled by natural selection to the betterment of the entire species. Eugenics may be based

on a literal understanding of Darwin s metaphor. The 2002 edition of the Encyclopedia Eritannica has this to say: ‘Darwin s description

of the process of natural selection as the survival of the fittest in the struggle for life is a metaphor. 'Struggle' does

not necessarily mean contention, strife, or combat; 'survival' does not mean that ravages of death are needed to make the selection effective.‘

and 'fittest' is virtually never a single optimal genotype but rather an array of genotypes that collectively enhance population survival rather than
extinction. All these considerations are most apposite to consideration of natural selection in humans. Decreasing infant and childhood mortality rates do not
necessarily mean that natural selection in the human species no longer operates. Theoretically, natural selection could be very effective if all the

children born reached maturity. Two conditions are needed to make this theoretical possibility realized: first, variation in the number of children per
family and, second, variation correlated with the genetic properties of the parents. Neither of these conditions is farfetched.' The eugenics debate is

only the visible extremity of the Man vs. Nature conundrum. Have we truly conquered nature and extracted ourselves from its determinism? Have

we graduated from natural to cultural evolution, from natural to artificial selection, and from genes to memes.’ Does the evolutionary process culminate

in a being that transcends its genetic baggage, that programs and charts its future, and that allows its weakest and sickest to

survive.’ Supplanting the imperative of the survival of the fittest with a culturally-sensitive principle may be the hallmark of a successful evolution,
rather than the beginning of an inexorable decline. The eugenics movement turns this argument on its head. They accept the premise that

the contribution of natural selection to the makeup of future human generations is glacial and negligible. But they reiect the conclusion that,

having ridden ourselves of its tyranny, we can now let the weak and sick among us survive and multiply. Rather, they propose

to replace natural selection with eugenics. 8ut who, by which authority, and according to what guidelines will administer this man-made culling and

decide who is to live and who is to die, who is to breed and who may not.’ why select by intelligence

and not by courtesy or altruism or church-going - or al of them together? ‘7t is here that eugenics fails miserably. Should

the criterion be physical, like in ancient Sparta? Should it be mental.’ Should ‘7Q determine one s fate - or social status

or wealth? Different answers yield disparate eugenic programs and target dissimilar groups in the population, Aren t eugenic criteria liable to be

unduly influenced by fashion and cultural bias.’ can we agree on a universal eugenic agenda in a world as ethnically and culturally

diverse as ours.’ ‘if we do get it wrong - and the chances are overwhelming - will we not damage our gene

pool irreparably and, with it, the future of our species.’ And even if many will avoid a slippery slope leading from eugenics

to active extermination of ‘inferior’ groups in the general population - can we guarantee that everyone will.’ How to prevent eugenics from

being appropriated by an intrusive, authoritarian, or even murderous state? Modern eugenicists distance themselves from the crude methods adopted at the beginning
of the last century by 29 countries, including Germany, The United States, Canada, Switzerland, Austria, Venezuela, Estonia, Argentina, Norway, Denmark, Sweden (until
1.976}, Brazil, ‘7taly, Greece, and Spain. They talk about free contraceptives for low-9Q women, vasectomies or tubal ligations for criminals, sperm banks

with contributions from high achievers, and incentives for college students to procreate. Modern genetic engineering and biotechnology are readily applicable to

I

