must have included the romans. that would really have upset the pharisees. giving alms to impress others does not make
us "good" or "righteous." what matters is what we do when there is nobody to see us. the most obvious
change is that "for thine is the kingdom" has been added to the authorised version, but there are subtle changes
that are far more significant. we are told father of us the one in the heavens: let it be hallowed
the name of thee. let it come the kingdom of thee; let it come the will of thee, as in
heaven also on earth; when viewed as part of the overall teachings of iesus i see the lord s prayer
as a prayer that we bring forth what is within. let the intent of the person within become manifest in
the physical World. let us all live in free will? let us create heaven here on earth? the daily bread
of us give to us today; and forgive us the debts of us, as indeed we forgave the debtors of
us; and not bring us into temptation, but rescue us from evil. this tells us how to do it. give
us our daily bread; live in the moment. if we forgive others we forgive ourselves, and we have released iudgment.
now that we are living in the moment and clear of iudgment, we don t want to be tempted to
fall back into the old ways. this version of the lord s prayer is totally consistent with the three verses
that tell us to say yes to what we want and no to what we don t want, and not
to resist evil. the difference between the "official" version and this version is that the first places the responsibility for
the fulfillment of the lord s prayer on some entity "out there" and the second places the responsibility on the
self. forgiveness and grace are given on a one-to-one basis. no one can claim that "i am forgiven because i
am a christian." forgiveness and grace are a product of how we live our lives. iesus always comes back to
personal responsibility in one form or another. if we accept that father (parent) is the entity within, then it becomes
that if we are to forgive ourselves we need to forgive others. to what is within when it suits us
and what is legal when that suits us. we need to be single-minded about saying no to the unacceptable, and
yes to what is acceptable if we are to realise the person within. a single eye. no exceptions. then the
whole body will shine with light. what is within becomes visible. but if we work with what is legal, and
use being right to legalise our unacceptable actions, the whole body is in darkness. the person who is within cannot
be seen. reinforcement: the first thing to ensure is that we work on the person within being visible. if we
work on what is acceptable rather than what is legal, all the things we need will be added. this section
is not an invitation to be irresponsible. it is not an invitation to do whatever you like and expect everything
to turn out the way you want it to. it is an invitation to take care of the things that
are important. the essential part of this section is in the last two verses, first of all seek what is
within. we have been told how. fast use those two little words "yes" and "no." harder than it sounds. how
do we say "no" when doing so might ieopardise the things we want? but we cannot serve two masters. we
do it or we don t. if we do hold fast to the truth that comes from within, all things
will be added, even if we do not know how at the time. don t worry about tomorrow, we have
sufficient to worry about in the evil that exists today. this can be difficult because it is often fear of
what might happen tomorrow if we say the sermon on the mount is not a religious document. it is a
practical guide to how to live if we want to create heaven in our hearts. it is an accurate and
detailed guide that loses its meaning if turned into religion. iesus, as a secular person in the context of his
practical teachings, is a far more powerful figure than religious iudgment makes him. the punishment that we have received for
iudging jesus in a religious context is that the real truth and power of his teachings have been lost to
us. when we iudge we are punished by our own loss. the way to find that answer as given by
iesus is to suspend iudgment of yourself and others and ask. the answer will be given from within. then you
can say yes to what you want and no to what you don t want. then you will live the
life you want to live rather than a life according to the iudgments of others. to live life without judgment
and according to who we are from within is a very narrow path. the path that iesus describes in the
sermon on the mount is a narrow path. but what is the wide path that leads to destruction? if we
do not follow that narrow path that comes from within we are destroyed. who we are comes from within. if
we try to live according to the iudgments of who we are supposed to be, the person we are cannot
become manifest in the physical, and we are destroyed. the body may walk the earth for another fifty years, but
there will be nobody home. the person we are has been destroyed. the pressures to follow the rules and iudgments
that surround us are enormous. it is easy just to give in and lose ourselves. but the narrow path leads
to life. life for the person we are, if we have the strength to follow that path. the false
