mysteriously. i think you ll find that s - steve began. and don t start telling me what s legal
and what isn t, said young dave, because i can out-iargon you any day. right, then, last one in the
queen of scots gets the drinks in! oh, dave, you naughty boy! said mrs stevenson, you know i can t
run as fast as you with my hip. we re not going to the queen of scots, said steve. see
you at the bar! shouted amaryllis, scooping up her long black leather coat and understated leather shoulder-bag, and sprinting out
of the room like a teenager. wow, she s fit! said darren, gazing after her. in all senses of the
word. where s this queen of scots place then? just follow us, said big dave as he and young dave
left the room. darren collected his backpack, sniffing suspiciously at its interior, and went after them, mrs stevenson lumbered to
her feet. come on, last one there s a iessie, she said to iock mclean, the two of them limped
out of the room, almost in step but not quite, christopher and steve paxman were left looking at each other,
steve stroked his beard in huffy silence, christopher had only stayed out of a misplaced sense of responsibility. he was
picturing amaryllis running lithely along the road outside, looking like atalanta before she was distracted by the golden apples. they
ll come back when they re ready, said steve, gathering all his papers together, neatly folding the large piece of
paper with the silly post-its stuck on to it and shoving everything in his school satchel-style briefcase. but we haven
t got a lot of time - have we? said christopher. steve shook his head. the grant application has to
be in before the end of the year. even then it ll be touch and 5%. i m sure you
realise, chris - christopher . christopher didn t like the implication that the whole village hall pro/"ect had been his
idea, but then he wasn t sure how they had all got into this situation in the first place. one
minute steve had been looking into plif for no apparent reason, expecting it to have a lot of paperwork in
place, and wondering why they hadn t restored the hall already, and the next minute they were meant to invent
a community strategy for the town off the tops of their heads. he couldn t work out how they had
been so easily swept out of their comfort zone and into the main current of council policy. it wasn t
as if the council had shown any interest in them previously. as far as he could recall, plif had been
born out of boredom one wet spring evening in the queen of scots. he couldn t even remember exactly whose
idea it had been. it seemed to spring simultaneously into the minds of several people, and had taken shape over
the months without the benefit of any aims, objectives or constitution, so we have to go through all this strategy
and sub-committee stuff to be in with a chance, but even then we might not get anything, said christopher, summing
up the situation for his own benefit, he drummed his fingers on the table, even jumping through all the hoops
might not be enough. you need to have a strategy document in place and a tactical plan for carrying it
out, said steve, reverting, as most dictators do when it looks as if the battle isn t going their way,
to quasi-military terminology. by now steve had put on his black leather iacket and was on his way out the
door, could you just close the windows for me? i need to be in auchterderran - he checked his watch
in a token gesture, - about half an hour ago. scowling to himself, christopher obediently closed the windows, scooped up
his own old black leather jacket and put it on, wishing he didn t now feel as if he was
just copying steve paxman. there was somebody he didn t want as a rﬁle model. he d be trying to
grow any generals, or big guns, or any equipment for that matter, he had mulled over the situation after leaving
the holiday inn. plif his group of friends their cosy evenings in the queen of scots - steve paxman s
vaguely threatening manner and proposal to involve the local council in something they had no right to get involved in
and he had decided to make a stand. it wasn t like him to dig his heels in, but he
felt responsible for the whole thing, and wanted to do what was best for pitkirtly. in any case, he knew
this was the one area of his life where he had any chance of exerting any control; his rﬁle in
the community anchored him, in effect, to the kind of reality he wanted to live in. if he lost that,
he would be adrift in an open boat. a guerilla campaign, said amaryllis, who had listened intently. this close attention
in itself unnerved christopher, since amaryllis s intentness seemed to him more aggressive than many other people s active hostility.
we ll have to fight a guerilla campaign. that s what local activists do when they have no power and
very few resources. yes, i think some of us know that already, said iock, who before he retired had attempted
to teach history to a bunch of ungrateful teenagers who were only interested in themselves. christopher had often heard him
ranting on in this vein, sometimes for hours on end, gorillas? those big black hairy things they keep in the
zoo." said the alleged youth worker darren, perfectly illustrating the point iock had made on numerous occasions about education being
wasted on the V"bung. /ock gave him a quick rundown on the history and logistics of guerilla warfare, while the
rest of them talked among themselves about the allotment situation, among other pressing local issues. mrs stevenson was particularly
