front of the mirrors for drinks, but a curious change had come over him. the relaxed body had grown rigid.
no longer was he lounging against the back of his chair, from his eyes the laughter had been wiped out,
as a wet sponge obliterates writing on a slate. all his forces were gathered as if for instant action, he
was tense as a coiled spring. his friend noticed that the boy was listening intently, even faculty concentrated at attention,
a man leaning against the other end of the bar was speaking. he had a shock of long red hair
and a squint to his eyes. "sure you re right. a bunch of webb s gunmen got ranse--caught him out
alone and riddled him. when webb drove through here two days ago with a herd, his killers bragged of it.
ask harsha up at the buffalo corral if youse don t believe me. sure as hell s hot we got
to go on the war-path. here, you mike! set em up again." the boy at the table had drawn back
his lips so that the canine teeth stood out like tusks. there Was something wolfish about the face, from which
all the color had been driven. it expressed something so deadly, so menacing, that the young man across from him
felt a shock almost of fear. "we d better get out of here," he said, glancing toward the group near
the front door. the other young man did not answer, but he made no move to leave. he was still
taking in even syllable of what the drinkers were saying. the ex-guerrilla was talking. "tha s sure sayin something, hugh.
there ain t room in new mexico for webb s outfit an ours too." "better go slow, boys," advised another.
he was a thick-set man in the late thirties, tight-lipped and heavy-/"awed. his eyes were set so close together that
it gave him a sinister expression. "talkin don t get us anywhere. if we re goin to sit in a
game with homer webb an his punchers we got to play our hand close." "buck sanders, segundo of the lazy
s m ranches," explained again the young man at the table in a low voice. "say, kid, let s beat
it while the goin is good." the big bow-legged man answered the foreman. "you re right, buck. so s hugh.
so s the old rebel, i m /"us servin notice that no bunch of shorthorn punchers can kill a brother
of mine an get away with it. un erstand? i ll meet up with them some day an i ll
sure fog em to a fare-you-well." he interlarded his speech with oaths and foul language. "i ll bet you do,
dave," chipped in the man next him, who had had a run-in with the texas rangers and was on the
outskirts of civilization because the lone star state did not suit his health. "i would certainly hate to be one
of them when yore old six-gun begins to pop. it sure will be llory-halleluiah for some one." dave roush ordered
another drink on the strength of the texan s admiration. "mind, i don t say ranse wasn t a good
man. mebbe i m a leetle mite better n him with a hogleg. mebbe--" "ranse was good with a revolver
all right, but sho! you make him look like a plugged nickel when you go to makin smoke, dave," interrupted
the toady. "well, mebbe i do. say i do. i ain t yet met up with a man can beat
me when i m right. but at that ranse was a mighty good man. they bushwhacked him, i ll bet
a stack of blues. i aim to git busy soon as i find out who done it." the red-headed man
raised his voice a trifle. "say, you kid--there at the table--come here an hold these ropes." see you don t
let the hawses at the other end of em git away!" slowly the boy turned, pushing his chair round so
that he half-faced the group before the bar. he neither rose nor answered. "cayn t you-all hear?" demanded the man
with the shock of unkempt, red hair. "i hear, but i m not comin right away. when i do, you
ll wish i hadn t." if a bomb had exploded at his feet hugh roush could not have been more
surprised. he was a big, rough man, muscular and sinewy, and he had been the victor of many a rough-and-tumble
fight. on account of his reputation for quarrelsomeness men chose their words carefully when they spoke to him. that this
little fellow with the smooth, girlish face and the small, almost womanish hands and feet should defy him was hard
to believe. "come a-runnin , kid, or i ll whale the life out of you!" he roared. "you didn t
get me right," answered the boy in a low, clear voice. "i m not comin till i get ready, hugh
roush." the wolf snap of the boy s iaw, the cold glitter in his eyes, might have warned roush and
perhaps did. he wondered, too, how this stranger knew his name so well. "where are you from?" he demanded. "from
anywhere but here," "meanin that you re here to stay?" "meanin that i m here to stay." "even if i
tell you to git out of the country?" "you won t be alive to tell me unless you talk right
sudden." they watched each other, the man and the boy. neither as yet made any motion to draw his gun,
the younger one because he was not ready, roush because he did not want to show any premature alarm before
the men taking in the scene. nor could he yet convince himself, in spite of the challenge that rang in
the words of the boy, of serious danger from so unlikely a source. dave roush had been watching the boy
closely. a likeness to someone whom he could not place stirred faintly his memory, "who are you? what s
