procedures. if you and your boys don t do this clean, it s going to mean our next command, yours
and mine, will be somewhere within sight of tierra del fuego. if there s a nuclear incident here, the greek
government would probably tear up our mutual-defense treaty and convert the base at souda into a souvlaki stand. am i
making myself clear?" "if i hear you right, what you re saying is, no way can we afford to fuck
this one up." "i ve always admired your quick grasp of the salient points in a briefing. so, we re
going to do this by the goddamn book; we re going to dot every goddamn i and cross every goddamn
t and get every goddamn detail of this op, right down to the color of our goddamn shoelaces, approved, signed
off, and ass-kissed in triplicate. that iranian hostage disaster did not exactly make a lot of careers. again i ask
you, eric, am i getting the fuck through?" "in skywriting, the only small problem i see, sir, is that while
everybody is carefully protecting their pension, those assholes on the island may start slaughtering hostages, or put this nuclear material
-which i have just learned about in such a timely fashion-into goddamn orbit. and then my deltas are going to
be in the middle of a shitstorm they easily could have prevented if they d been given the chance. they
re my boys, and i don t really take kindly to that happening. sir." he reached in his breast pocket
for a cigar, the chewing of which was his usual response to stress. "so what exactly do you propose we
do?" austin asked. "the most obvious first thing would be to interdict this bunch of mercenary ierkoffs and keep them
from going in there and getting a lot of people killed. i say we should find them and stop them,
using whatever force it takes. there are enough civilians in harm s way as it is," he leaned forward. "look,
if we have to dick around waiting on the pentagon before we can go in, at least we can stop
these mercenary assholes. it has to be done. and we don t need some computer study before we get off
our ass. i want to take them down, and nobody has to even know about it. if it comes out
in some debriefing someday, we ll worry about it then." "all right, maybe i agree with you," austin sighed. "they
should be interdicted. what do you want? a pave-low?" "just give me an sh-60. to pick them up. i m
going to put the love of the lord into these amateurs, then bring them in. hell, they re probably well-intentioned,
just doing what somebody paid them to do." and who could blame that somebody, he found himself thinking, if it
takes the u.s. of a. this long to cut through its damned bureaucracy and mount an operation, "all right, i
ll give you a seahawk," austin said. "it can be prepped and ready to go by"-he glanced at his watch-"D300
hours. will that be enough?" "guess it ll have to be." by that time, he was thinking ruefully, we could
be taking the island. and with that thought he decided to hell with protocol and fired up his well-chewed cigar.
"look, eric, i know what you re thinking," austin said after a pause, "that an old fart like me is
cramping your guys style. and, dammit, maybe there s a grain of truth in that- hell, more than a grain,
but here s the downside. if your deltas go in half-cocked and get cut up, we re going to get
blamed. on the other hand, if they don t go in till washington says so, then, yes, maybe it ll
be too late, but it s going to be on somebody else s service record, not ours. i m protecting
your boys, whether you see it or not. if we only go in on orders, then the deltas are not
going to be the ones taking the heat if this thing falls apart." "/"ust get me the damned chopper," nichols
said quietly. mannheim looked at her. "cally, we need to try and find him. this vance fellow. if his friends
are going to try and come in, then they ll need him to help them. he ll know what they
require a lot better than you will." she found herself nodding grimly, agreeing. isaac mannheim was no dummy, "they must
either have captured him or shot him," she said. "or both. he would have come back by now unless there
was a problem. but if he s still alive, then they probably have him down at launch. and it s
going to be very dangerous for us to go down there, isaac." "i m an old man. maybe i ve
outlived my usefulness." it was strange talk for isaac mannheim, but he was turning wistful, perhaps even defeated. "i do
know one thing. he risked his life for me. i owe it to him to at least find out what
happened. so let me go by myself." she did not like the sound of that. "look, maybe i-" "no, not
you. they ve got to be looking for you. but they probably just think i m an old fool"-he laughed-"and
maybe they re right. at any rate, at least i can go down there and wander around a bit. everybody
knows i m harmless. as long as it doesn t look like i m going anywhere, i don t think
they ll bother with me. at least not right now. if they re busy with the countdown, they re not
going to trouble with a deranged old man. i m small potatoes." "isaac, you re a very big potato." she
wanted to hug him. "but you re also just about the most wonderful man i know. i love you to
death. just be careful, please?" now it was his turn to smile, the old face showing its wrinkles more
