furious and frustrated, i bang and kick and ram the glass with my shoulder, shouting, but it never breaks. then
i start running again, looking over my shoulder as i look for the exit. i can t stop for a
minute because of that bycraft chasing me relentlessly down that road or around those corridors. it s usually red who
s pursuing me, a malicious grin across his face, but sometimes it s craig or tommy or bobby bycraft himself,
a razor-sharp knife hidden behind his back. once or twice it is even fake. my dream always ends the same
way. somehow i have finished running and find myself standing on the veranda of my family home. the front door
is ajar and i cautiously push it fully open, creeping down the central hallway into the silent house. the bloody
handprints on the walls and splatters on the pastel apricot carpet fill me with apprehension. i ignore the overturned furniture
in the lounge room and step over the broken remnants of my mother s favourite lamp. my stomach is a
tight ball of fear as i slowly make my way to the kitchen at the back of the house. my
mother is lying huddled up against the blood-smeared back door as if she had been trying to escape through it
when she finally fell. a broken knife protrudes from her back, its handle tossed carelessly to the floor, her face
is turned away from me, covered by her long dark-blonde hair, now sticky and matted. her pretty yellow dress is
stained orange with all the red. she is barefoot, her blood-sprayed legs arched gracefully, feet pointed, her toenails painted a
bright magenta that clashes with the dark crimson of her spilled blood. i drop to my knees in a lake
of her blood. tenderly, i sweep her bloodied hair from her forehead, looking down at her young, beautiful face, my
mouth stretched in a silent wail of anguished denial. tears flood my eyes and flow down my cheeks, dripping to
the floor. i am too late to save her. i m always too late to save her. it was chilling
to hear. from the open front windows of the house an unnerving symphony of suffering ruptured the night-time peace. frantic
screaming clashed brutally with guttural grunts, loud deep thuds and what sounded alarmingly like a chainsaw. goosebumps bristled down my
arms and i paused a moment to double check my equipment, reassuringly patting each piece as i went through my
mental stocktake - gun, oc spray, baton, handcuffs. steeling myself with a deep breath, i climbed the spongy, rotting timber
stairs to the veranda. despite the lingering heat of the late summer night, the neighbours had prudently slammed their windows
and doors shut. the street was deserted, but prying eyes stared out at me from behind even curtain. i banged
on the front door, dislodging peeling flakes of ugly mud-brown paint. there was no response. but then the screaming stopped
suddenly with a last spine-tingling yowl, the instant silence that replaced it Welcome, but eerie. i took advantage of the
unexpected lull to thump harder on the door with my fist. the screaming recommenced, even louder than before, but i
d finally been heard and it was cut off abruptly mid-cry. thank the heavens, i thought with relief. two o
clock in the morning was no time to be playing death metal music. especially when it was blasted so loudly
that it made your bones vibrate and your ears feel like they were bleeding. the veranda light switched on and
red bycraft flung open the door, his eyes widening in delight when he saw it was me standing at his
threshold. he was bare-chested and barefoot, dressed only in faded low-slung ieans that showcased his honey-brown skin, tattoos, muscled arms
and six-pack. like all the bycrafts, he was tall, well-built and beautiful, with the golden colouring common in his family.
he was also trouble. big time. "well, well, well. if it isn t lovely tessie fuller standing right before me
in the flesh," he drawled, leaning against the doorframe and crossing his arms and ankles, snakeish-yellow eyes roaming my body,
"and what mouth-watering flesh it is too." he flicked out his tongue and ran it slowly around his lips with
offensive intent. i didn t react. he took a step closer to me, leaning down until his face was mere
centimetres away and his eyes drilled into mine. his voice dropped to an intimate whisper, almost caressing, "i can t
wait for the day i get to taste it. to bruise it. to bite it. get to force myself inside
it," the alcohol fumes on his breath made my nose twitch. i resisted the sudden strong urge to step backwards,
instead returning his stare steadily and making even effort not to show just how much he made my skin crawl.
he wasn t going to intimidate me - not now, not ever. before answering, i deliberately, conspicuously, trailed my eyes
down the iagged ten centimetre scar running down his neck that i d given him when i was fifteen. "we
both know that day s never going to happen, don t we, red?" i reminded him coldly. he smiled with
lazy menace and shifted even closer. i caught the masculine scent of his underarm sweat, not entirely masked by the
musky deodorant he wore, the day had been stifling, the evening not much cooler. he continued to whisper. "i disagree,
tessie, i think we both know that day will definitely happen. we have unfinished business, you and me, and i
have such a hard-on for you," he gripped his crotch and bared his teeth with a hiss. i refused to
entertain him by reacting to his crude taunting, maintaining my professionally stony demeanour. he pouted at me for spoiling his
fun and ran his hands through his longish wavy golden hair, his chest muscles tensing enticingly as he did. he
was a mean bastard of a man but he sure did come in a good-looking package. "what can i
