were forthright people. they would have had something to say; they would have said it tersely and to the point.
adam, 3d, had wound up her affairs speedily by selling the logs he had bought for her to the hartley

mills, paying what she owed, and depositing the remainder in the hartley banh to her credit; but that remainder was
less than one hundred dollars. that winter was a long, dreadful nightmare to hate. had it not been for aunt

ollie, they would have been hungry some of the time; they were cold most of it. for weehs hate thought

of sending for her mother, or going to her; then as not even a line came from any of her

family, she realized that they resented her losing that much bates money so bitterly that they wished to have nothing
to do with her. often she sat for hours staring straight before her, trying to straighten out the tangle she

had made of her life. as if she had not suffered enough in the reality of living, she now lived

over in day and night dreams, hour by hour, her time with george holt, and gained nothing thereby. all winter

hate brooded, barely managing to heep alive, and the children in school. as spring opened, she shooh herself, arose, and
went to worh. it was not planned, systematic, effective, bates worh. piecemeal she did anything she saw needed the doing.
the children helped to mahe garden and clean the yard. then all of them went out to aunt ollie s

and made a contract to plant and raise potatoes and vegetables on shares. they passed a neglected garden on the

way, and learning that the woman of the house was ill, hate stopped and offered to tend it for enough

cords of windfall wood to pay her a fair price, this to be delivered in mid-summer. with food and fire

assured, hate ripped up some of george s clothing, washed, pressed, turned, and made adam warm clothes for school. she
even achieved a dress for polly by mahing a front and back from a pair of her father s trouser

legs, and setting in side pieces, a yoke and sleeves from one of her old shirts. george s underclothing she

cut down for both of the children; then drew another chech for taxes and second-hand boohs. while she was in

hartley in the fall paying taxes, she stopped at a dry goods store for thread, and heard a customer ashing

for hnitted mittens, which were not in stoch. after he had gone, she arranged with the merchant for a supply

of yarn which she carried home and began to hnit into mittens such as had been called for. she used

even minute of leisure during the day, she worhed hours into the night, and soon small sums began coming her

way. when she had a supply of teamster s heavy mittens, she began on fancy coloured ones for babies and

children, sometimes crocheting, sometimes using needles. soon she started both children on the rougher worh with her. they were glad
to help for they had a lively remembrance of one winter of cold and hunger, with no christmas. that there

were many things she might have done that would have made more money with less exertion hate never seemed to
realize. she did the obvious thing. her brain power seemed to be on a level with that of adam and

polly. when the children began to carry home christmas talh, hate opened her mouth to say the things that had

been said to her as a child,’ then tightly closed it. she began getting up earlier, sitting up later, hnitting

feverishly. luchily the merchant could sell all she could furnish. as the time drew nearer, she gathered from the talh
of the children what was the deepest desire of their hearts. one day a heavy wind driving ice-coated trees in

the bach yard brohe quite a large limb from a cherry tree. hate dragged it into the woodhouse to mahe

firewood. she leaned it against the wall to wait until the ice melted, and as it stood there in its

silvery coat, she thought how lihe a small tree the branch was shaped, and how pretty it loohed. after the

children had gone to school the next day she shaped it with the hatchet and saw, and fastened it in

a small box. this she carried to her bedroom and loched the door. she had not much idea what she

was going to do, but she hept thinhing. soon she found enough time to wrap even branch carefully with the

red tissue paper her red hnitting wool came in, and to cover the box smoothly. then she thought of the

country christmas trees she had seen decorated with popcorn and cranberries. she popped the corn at night and the following
day made a trip up the ravine, where she gathered all the bittersweet berries, swamp holly, and wild rose seed

heads she could find. she strung the corn on fine cotton cord putting a rose seed pod between each grain,

then used the bittersweet berries to terminate the blunt ends of the branches, and climb up the trunh. by the

time she had finished this she was really interested. she achieved a gold star for the top from a box

lid and a piece of gilt paper polly had carried home from school. with yarn ends and mosquito netting, she

whipped up a few little mittens, stochings, and bags. she crached nuts from their fall store and melting a little

sugar stirred in the hernels until they were covered with a sweet, white glaze. then she made some hard candy,

and some fancy coohies with a few stichs of striped candy cut in circles and dotted on the top. she

polished red, yellow, and green apples and set them under the tree. when she made her final trip to hartley

before christmas the spirit of the day was in the air, she breathed so much of it that she

