marched down to breakfast. unsurprisingly, noxious black and his army of slytherin friends were waiting at the mighty entrance to
the great hall. ah, dumbledore, noxious said. we have been waiting for you. get out of our way, william said

irritably. we do not want to have to duel with you. albus cringed. he thought that william might have iust

blown their cover over the fact that they knew the secret plan. but noxious did not blink or act in

any way to suggest that he was surprisingd by william s comment. instead, his eyes locked on albus . dumbledore,

do not let the potter idiot speak for you, noxious said. do you remember our little ten galleon bet that

davey /ones would lose to me in a duel at the end of the year? yes, i do, albus said

loudly. he now wished that he had not been so bold on his first night at hogwarts. he made a

silent promise to himself never to make foolish bets like that again. well, i want to have it this weekend,

noxious said, smirking and crossing his arms. albus s brain worked quickly. he knew that this had something to do

with forcing albus into a crook and into a duel with the slytherins. unfortunately, he had made a fair bet

with noxious and the consequences of backing out would be the trashing of his reputation among all the first years

at hogwarts. even expulsion was better than that. the terms of our agreement, as everyone will remind you, albus said
calmly, are that the duel occurs at the end of first year. so, davey [ones will duel with you on

the last day of exams. albus pushed through the protective guard of his friends, past the slytherins and into the

great hall. his friends hurriedly caught up, breathing heavily. well, i think we should be alright until then, albus said.

we will still avoid the slytherins at every cost, but i think their plan is to duel me after noxious

has duelled davey, i think he is convinced that he will beat davey. he will if he knows the cardia

mortis spell, mars pointed out. by merlin! cried albus, realising what this meant, i am going to have to spend

every spare minute before exams figuring out how to protect myself and davey against it! if albus thought he had

enough to worry about, the first lesson of the day proved him immediately wrong. the gryffindors had defence against the
dark arts with the slytherins and professor fudge. the dog-faced slytherin housemaster marched to the front of the class, ordered
everyone to sit down, and directed his eyes until they met albus . dumbledore, will you kindly summon that phoenix

of yours? professor fudge said in an unnaturally soft, pleasant voice. i  i do not own one, albus said,

feeling hot under the collar. you most certainly do, professor fudge snapped. ten points from gryffindor for lying to me.
i have enough witnesses to prove that you do. now summon the phoenix. i need it for today s very

special lesson. you would not want the rest of the class to miss out because you were being selfish, would

you? the slytherins pointed fake looks of disgust in albus direction. the gryffindors knew better than to react, professor, the
phoenix does not belong to me anymore, albus said, not blinking at the bulldog face staring at him, forty points

from gryffindor for continuing to lie to me! yelled professor fudge. he marched down the aisle between the desks and
pointed a fat finger at albus chest. albus had to fight the urge to splutter when he was hit by

a wave of professor fudge s bad breath. you will summon that phoenix and you will summon it now! albus

leaped to his feet, glaring at professor fudge. he felt like pulling out his wand and hexing the horrible old

man. alright then, i will show you that i do not own it anymore, albus said. he started screaming, not

tearing his eyes from professor fudges , fawkes! fawkes! come here! i need you! i am in lots of danger!

fawkes, if you do not come i am going to lose more points for gryffindor! no, i am going to

die.’ fawkes! fawkes! fortunately, the phoenix did not appear in the room, iust as albus had predicted. the phoenix was

far too smart for that. albus let a gleam of triumph cross his eyes, professor fudge saw it, and his

look grew even fouler. fifty more points from gryffindor, professor fudge yelled. get out of this class, gryffindors, i will
not teach any of you again. not ever. as the gryffindors made their glad exit from the room, william was

heard to mutter under his breath, let us hope so. that night in the gryffindor Common room, albus got something

that offered him even more relief.’ more than knowing that fawkes was safe in the forbidden forest, more than knowing
that a potential duel with the slytherins was delayed until the end of exams in a few months, and more

than knowing that the gryffindors never ever had to have defence against the dark arts with professor fudge again: albus
got a letter back from archaeon. to my dearest son albus, i, too, have heard through the grapevine that all

is not as it should be at hogwarts and elsewhere. therefore, rest assured that i am doing everything in my

power to offset the plans of those who have designs on that which does not belong to them. my advice

to you is this: do whatever it takes to avoid being expelled. i am certain that you are capable of

working out what that will entail. you are well protected at hogwarts, so do not fear anything or anyone. all

my love, archaeon albus breathed a sigh of immense relief as he handed the letter to the ohure pirates to

read. all the fears that had built up over the past months seemed to leave him with that letter.

