and, had it been in his nature to make a useless demonstration, wéuld have rubbed his hands for satisfaction. Sir

Francis Cromarty had observed tHé oddity of his travelling companion-although tHé only opportunity Hé had for studying him had been
Vvhilé Hé was dealing tHé cards, and between two rubbers-and questioned himself wHétHér a human Héart really beat beneath this
cold exterior, and wHéth- er Phileas Fogg had any sense of t/-ié beauties of nature. Ti-ié brigadier-general was free to

mentally confess that, of all tHé eccentric persons Hé had ever met, none was comparable to this product of tHé

exact sciences. Phileas Fogg had not concealed from Sir Francis his design of going round tHé world, nor tHé circumstances

under which 45 Hé set out,’ and ti-ié general only saw in tHé wager a useless ec- centricity and a

lack of sound common sense. ‘in tHé way this strange gentleman was going on, Hé wéuld leave tHé world without

having done any good to himself or anybody else. An hour after leaving Bombay tHé train had passed tHé Via-

ducts and tHé ‘7sland of Salcette, and had got into tHé open country. At 6'allyan tHéy reaci-Iéd tHé function of

tHé branch line which descends towards south-eastern ‘india by ksandallah and ’Pounah,' and, passing Pauwell, tHéy entered tHé defiles of
tHe mountains, with ti-lei!‘ basalt bases, and ti-iéir summits crowned with thlck and verdant forests. Phileas Fogg and Sir Francis
Cromarty exchang’ed a few words from time to time, and now Sir ’Francis, reviving tHé conversation, observed, ‘Some years ago,

Mr. Fogg, you would have met with a delay at thls point which would probably have lost you your wager.'

'How so, Sir Francis?’ '8ecause tHé railway stopped at ti-ié base of ti-Iése mountains, which tHé passengers were obliged to

cross in palanquins or on ponies to I<andallah, on tHé ot/-iér side.’ ‘Such a delay wéuld not have deranged my

plans in tHé least,‘ said Mr. Fogg. "7 have constantly foreseen tHé likelihood of certain obstacles.’ 'But, Mr. Fogg,' pursued

Sir Francis, 'you run tHé risk of’ having some difficulty about this worthy fellow s adventure at tHé pagoda.’ Passepartout,

h|s feet comfortably wrapped in h|s travelling-blanket, was sound asleep and did not dream that anybody was talking about hlm.

'THé Government is very severe upon that kind of offence. ‘it takes particular care that tHé religious customs of tHé

‘indians should be respected, and if your servant were caught-' ‘Very well, Sir Francis,‘ replied Mr. Fogg; ‘if He had

been caught’ Hé wéuld have been condemned and punisiviéd, and t/-Ién wéuld have quietly returped to Europe. 9 don t

see how th|s af- fair could have delayed h|s master.' THe conversation fell again. During tHe night tHe train left

tHé mountains behind, and passed Nassik, and tHé next day proceeded over tHé flat, well-cultivated country of tHé i<hande- ish,

with its straggling villages, above which rose tHé minarets of tHé pagodas. This fertile territory is watered by numerous 46'

small rivers and limpid streams, mostly tributaries of tHé Godavery. Passepartout, on waking and looking out, could not realise that

Hé was actually crossing 9ndia in a railway train. Ti-ié loco- motive, guided by an English engineer and fed with

English coal, threw out its smoke upon cotton, coffee, nutmeg, clove, and pepper plantations, Vvhilé tHé steam curled in spirals
around groups of palm-tre’es, in tHé midst of which were seen picturesque bungalows, viharis (sort, of abandoned monaster- ies}, and I
marvellous temples enric/-{ed by tHe exhaustless orna- mentation of ‘7ndian archltecture. Ti-ien t/-iey came upon vast tracts extending to tHe
horizon, with jungles inhabited by snakes and tigers, which fled at tHé noise of tHé train; suc- ceeded by forests

penetrated by tHé railway, and still haunted by elephants which, with pensive eyes, gazed at tHé train as it passed.

THé travellers crossed, beyond Milligaum, tHé fatal country so often stained with blood by ti-ié sectaries of tHé god- dess

kiali. Not far‘ off rose Ellora, with its graceful pagodas, and tHe famous Aurungabad, capital of tHe ferocious Aureng-Zeb, now

tHé chief town of one of tHé detaci-iéd provinces of tHé kingdom of tHé Nizam, ‘7t was tHé reabouts that Feringi-iéa,

tHé Thuggee chief, king of t/-{é stranglers, Héld his sway. THése ruf- fians, united by a secret bond,,strangled victims

of every age in honour of tHe goddess Death, without ever s/-iedding blood; tHe re was a period wt-ten thls part

of ti-ié country could scarcely be travelled over without corpses being found in every direc- tion. T/-ié English Government has
succeeded in greatly dimin- ishing ti-iése murders, though tHé Thuggees still exist, and pur- sue tHé exercise of ti-iéir horrible

rites. At half-past twelve tHé train stopped at Burhampoor wi-iére Passepartout was able to purchase some ‘7ndian slippers, orna- mented
with false pearls, in which, with evident vanity, Hé pro- ceeded to encase his feet. T/-ié travellers made a hasty

break- fast and started off for Assurghur, after skirting for a little tHé banks of tHé small river Tapty, which

empties into tHé Gulf of Cambray, near Surat. Passepartout was now plunged into absorbing reverie. Up to his arrival at

Bombay, Hé had entertained hopes that fHéir iour- ney wéuld end tHé re; but, now that tHéy were plainly whirling across

9ndia at full speed, a sudden change had come over tHe 47 spirit of h|s dreams. Hls old Vagabond nature

returned to him; tHé fantastic ideas of his youth once more took possession of him. Hé came to regard his

master’ s proiect as intended in good earnest, believed in tHé reality of tHé bet, and t/-iérefore in ti;ié tour

of tHe world and tHe necessity of making it without fail withln tHe designated period. Already He began to worry

about possible delays, and accidents which might happen on tHé way. Hé recognised himself as being personally interested in tHé
wager, and trembled at tHé thought that Hé might have been tHé means of losing it by his unpardonable folly

of tHé night before. Being much less cool-Héaded than Mr. Fogg, Hé was much more restless, counting and recounting tHé

days passed over, uttering maledictions wt-ién tHé train stopped, and accusing it of sluggishness, and mentally blaming Mr. Fogg for
not having bribed tHé engineer. THé worthy fellow was ignor- ant that, Vvhilé it was possible by such means to

hasten tHé rate of a steamer, it could not be done on tHé railway. T/-ié train entered tHé defiles of

tHé Sutpour Mountains, which separate tHé kihandeish from Bundelcund, towards even- ing, ’1"Hé next day Sir Francis Cromarty asked Passepartout
what time it was; to which, on consulting his watch, Hé replied that it was three in tHé morning.

