trouble in the sea; it cannot be quiet, 49:24 Damascus is waxed feeble, she turneth herself to flee, and trembling

hath seized on her; anguish and pangs have taken hold of her, as of a woman in travail. 49:25 How

is the city of praise left unrepaired, the city of my ioy? 49:26 Therefore her young men shall fall in

her broad places, and all the men of war shall be brought to silence in that day, saith the Lord

of hosts. 49:27 And 9 will kindle a fire in the wall of Damascus, and it shall devour the palaces

of Ben-hadad. 49:28 ? ﬂeremiah - Chapter 049 Of Icedar, and of the kingdoms of Hazor, which Nebuchadrezzar king of
Babylon smote. Thus saith the Lord: Arise ye, go up against kiedar, and spoil the children of the east. 49:29

Their tents and their flocks shall they take, they shall carry away for themselves their curtains, and all their vessels,

and their camels; and they shall proclaim against them a terror on every side. 49:30 Flee ye, flit far off,

dwell deep, 0 ye inhabitants of Hazor, saith the Lord; for Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon hath taken counsel against you,
and hath conceived a purpose against you. 49:31 Arise, get you up against a nation that is at ease, that

dwelleth without care, saith the Lord.’ that have neither gates nor bars, that dwell alone. 49:32 And their camels shall

be a booty, and the multitude of their cattle a spoil.’ and 9 will scatter unto all winds them that

have the corners polled; and 9 will bring their calamity from every side of them, saith the Lord. 49:33 And

Hazor shall be a dwelling-place of iackals, a desolation for ever; no man shall abide there, neither shall any son

of man dwell therein. 49:34 The word of the Lord that came to Feremiah the prophet concerning Elam in the

beginning of the reign of Zedekiah king of ﬂudah, saying: 49:35 Thus saith the Lord of hosts: behold, 9 will

break the bow of Elam the chief of their might. 49:36 And 9 will bring against Elam the four winds

from the four quarters of heaven, and will scatter them toward all those winds; and there shall be no nation

whither the dispersed of Elam shall not come. 49:37 .7 ﬂeremiah - Chapter 049 And 9 will cause Elam to

be dismayed before their enemies, and before them that seek their life; and 9 will bring evil upon them, even

My fierce anger, saith the Lord; and 9 will send the sword after them, till 9 have consumed them; 49:38

And 9 will set My throne in Elam, and will destroy from thence king and princes, saith the Lord. 49:39

But it shall come to pass in the end of days, that 9 will bring back the captivity of Elam,

saith the Lord. -- ﬂeremiah - Chapter 049 -- ? ﬂeremiah - Chapter 050 50:1 The word that the Lord

spoke concerning Babylon, concerning the land of the Chaldeans, by Feremiah the prophet. 50:2 Declare ye among the nations and
announce, and set up a standard; announce, and conceal not; say: Babylon is taken, Bel is put to shame, Merodach

is dismayed; her images are put to shame, her idols are dismayed. 50:3 For out of the north there cometh

up a nation against her, which shall make her land desolate, and none shall dwell therein; they are fled, they

are gone, both man and beast. 50:4 9n those days, and in that time, saith the Lord, the children of

9srael shall come, they and the children of ﬂudah together.‘ they shall go on their way weeping, and shall seek

the Lord their God. 50:5 They shall inquire concerning Zion with their faces hitherward: dome ye, and join yourselves to
the Lord in an everlasting covenant that shall not be forgotten. 50:6 My people hath been lost sheep; their shepherds

have caused them to go astray, they have turned them away on the mountains; they have gone from mountain to

hill, they have forgotten their resting-place. 50:7 All that found them have devoured them; and their adversaries said: we are
not guilty ; because they have sinned against the Lord, the habitation of iustice, even the Lord, the hope of

their fathers, 50:8 Flee out of the midst of Babylon, and go forth out of the land of the Chaldeans,

and be as the he-goats before the flocks. 50:9 ? Feremiah - Chapter 050 For, lo, 9 will stir up

and cause to come up against Babylon an assembly of great nations from the north country; and they shall set

themselves in array against her, from thence she shall be taken; their arrows shall be as of a mighty man

that maketh childless; none shall return in vain. 50:10 And Chaldea shall be a spoil; all that spoil her shall

be satisfied, saith the Lord. 50:11 Because ye are glad, because ye re/'oice, 0 ye that plunder My heritage, because

ye gambol as a heifer at grass, and neigh as strong horses; 50:72 Your mother shall be sore ashamed, she

that bore you shall be confounded; behold, the hindermost of the nations shall be a wilderness, a dry land, and

a desert. 50:73 Because of the wrath of the Lord it shall not be inhabited, but it shall be wholly

desolate; every one that goeth by Babylon shall be appalled and hiss at all her plagues. 50:74 Set yourselves in

array against Babylon round about, all ye that bend the bow, shoot at her, spare no arrows; for she hath

sinned against the Lord. 50:15 Shout against her round about, she hath submitted herself; her buttresses are fallen, her walls
are thrown down; for it is the vengeance of the Lord, take vengeance upon her; as she hath done, do

unto her. 50:16 Cut off the sower from Babylon, and him that handleth the sickle in the time of harvest;

for fear of the oppressing sword they shall turn every one to his people, and they shall flee every one

to his own land. 50:17 9srael is a scattered sheep, the lions have driven him away; first the king of

Assyria hath devoured him, and last this Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon hath broken his bones, 50:78 .7 Feremiah - Chapter
050 Therefore thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of 9srael: behold, 9 will punish the king of Babylon

and his land, as 9 have punished the king of Assyria. 50:19 And 9 will bring 9srael back to his

pasture, and he shall feed on Carmel and Bashan, and his soul shall be satisfied upon the hills of

