our parting, and all her looks and tones, and the action of her

fingers while she knitted - even then 9 was pursuing, here and there

and everywhere, the caution Don t go home. when at last 9 dozed,

in sheer 652 of 865 Great Expectations exhaustion of mind and body, it
became a vast shadowy verb which 9 had to coniugate. 9mperative mood, present
tense: Do not thou go home, let him not go home, let us

not go home, do not ye or you go home, let not them

go home. Then, potentially: 9 may not and 9 cannot go home; and

9 might not, Could not, would not, and should not go home; until

9 felt that 9 was going distracted, and rolled over on the pillow,

and looked at the staring rounds upon the wall again. 9 had left

directions that 9 was to be called at seven.‘ for it was plain

that 9 must see wemmick before seeing any one else, and equally plain

that this was a case in which his watworth sentiments, only, could be

taken. 9t was a relief to get out of the room where the

night had been so miserable, and 9 needed no second knocking at the

door to startle me from my uneasy bed. The Castle battlements arose upon

my view at eight o clock. The little servant happening to be entering

the fortress with two hot rolls, 9 passed through the postern and crossed

the drawbridge, in her company, and so came without announcement into the presence
of wemmick as he was making tea for himself and the Aged. An

open door afforded a perspective view of the Aged in bed. 653 of

865 Great Expectations Halloa, Mr. Pip.-' said wemmick. You did come home, then?
Yes, 9 returned; but 9 didn t go home. That s all right,

said he, rubbing his hands. 9 left a note for you at each

of the Temple gates, on the chance. which gate did you come to.’

9 told him. 9 ll go round to the others in the course

of the day and destroy the notes, said T1-‘emmick; it s a good

rule never to leave documentary evidence if you can help it, because you

don t know when it may be put in. 9 m going to

take a liberty with you, - would you mind toasting this sausage for

the Aged P.? 9 said 9 should be delighted to do it. Then

you can go about your work, Mary Anne, said wemmick to the little

servant; which leaves us to ourselves, don t you see, Mr. Pip? he

added, winking, as she disappeared. 9 thanked him for his friendship and caution,
and our discourse proceeded in a low tone, while 9 toasted the Aged

s sausage and he buttered the crumb of the Aged s roll. Now,

Mr, Pip, you know, said wemmick, you and 9 understand one another‘. we

are in our private and 654 of 865 Great Expectations personal capacities, and
we have been engaged in a confidential transaction before today. Official sentiments are
one thing. we are extra official. 9 cordially assented. 9 was so very

nervous, that 9 had already lighted the Aged s sausage like a torch,

and been obliged to blow it out. 9 accidentally heard, yesterday morning, said
wemmick, being in a certain place where 9 once took you - even

between you and me, it s as well not to mention names when

avoidable- Much better not, said 9. 9 understand you. 9 heard there by

chance, yesterday morning, said wemmick, that a certain person not altogether of uncolonial
pursuits, and not unpossessed of portable property - 9 don t know who

it may really be - we won t name this person- Not necessary,

said 9. - had made some little stir in a certain part of

the world where a good many people go, not always in gratification

