build assurance. because of the limits of our linear existence, repetition, for all of its tendency to stray from the

true visionary message, cannot be dispensed with. and patience is the virtue that should be greatly sought after, from this

most eternal of all sources. only time itself will tell if we are able to choose the best from among

all the rest! but history repeats itself as a testimony of our imperfection. and trying is all that we have,

to perceive if our way is the path that has been shown to us. so, maybe a name isn t

afterword i had intended that god in the 'dialogue' would have had the last word in this rather voluminous essay,

or assay as the dictionary might better describe it, 'to examine by trial.’ but alas the very smallness of man

compared to his ego cannot resist having one more. i had become aware, some time after i felt that i

had finally completed my assignment, that there was something still missing. had it been something still left unsaid.’ some point
of incompleteness? something missed in translation from the most comprehensive of all sources down to the very best that man
can manage.’ then an idea came to me and it wouldn t let go. so an 'epiphany' followed the 'dialogue.'

that still didn t seem to relieve the pressure totally and so this 'afterword' now has to be engaged. while

i may feel more comfortable placing myself closer to the lesser end in the scale of human resourcefulness, i have

tried to write about the frustration of those who have had a vision, where they have had to try to

squeeze such grandiloquence into the narrowness of man s linguistics, only to discover for myself this feeling, up close and
personal, so once again i will try to conclude that which probably Cannot come to a conclusion within man 5

range of understanding. have there been any inferences not at least alluded to, or maybe too subtly drawn to have

been perceived in the ordinariness of this author s mental repertoire.’ at the risk of repetition, i shall endeavor to

list some that have come to mind during my own elucidation. first, there is that presence that seems to have

always hovered in and over this creation. what, if anything, preceded man s attempt to envision some essence, before a

first 'animal spirit' presence, is at this juncture, unassailably beyond common memory, and possibly discovery, the spiral up through the
higher levels of climatological iconography, then geological, astronomical, universal and beyond has seemed to have only added confusion to complexity
at the expense of a clarity so diligently sought after. man s use of elaboration in his attempt to clarify

what was almost impossible to translate into his human vernacular have many times so smohureed any original revelation as to
have hidden what was meant to have been opened. within the ages of generations the popularity of these ever-less-meaningful elaborations
have declined to the point of having dropped into a fog of forgetfulness, with only pitifully minute traces left to

mark their passing. but this presence has been persistently forgiving of the well-intentioned fagades erected that only served to diminish
the light of each of these kernels of brilliance. the lack of permanence of these man-made edifices is only too

well documented, and man s teleological rubble appears to hide these many pearls of perception from our after-view. but all

must not be seen as lost! what might be able to be resurrected? through the gleanings of the many ways

that direct man s inquisitive search for his roots, these gems of cognition might still be regained, to shine again

as they once did with the eternal brilliance they were intended to reflect. but that presence carries on, continuing to

encourage the insight which would pierce that fog of man-made representations. it has already been a god-awfully long wait! my
second conclusion is that belief always arrives before proof, many times ages before. the belief that something works to one

s advantage before the knowledge of why it does is the sharp-edged tool that has most certainly enhanced man s

long-term survival. it has been what has made him different from all who have shared his cradle of infancy, the

nature from out of which he has apparently arisingn. but it has come at a cost. many have been led

astray by less than a well-founded belief that has seemed to work for a while, only to betray the trust

placed in it, as over the long haul it failed to deliver what was touted for it. that seems to

be why something more surely effective has always been sought as an adjunct to it, where man has become practiced

in the memory of an advantage that belief has many times bestowed, he has thrived in the good times and

survived the bad. he has persisted throughout the tribulations that have driven ohures to extinction. but any system of belief

is only as good as its basis. that original basis seems to have been experience. as it was tried and

found to be experientially true, the urge to pass it on to ohures became important. one s own family and

progeny might depend on it; one s hunting group might be able to bring home the bacon because of it.

one s own community might learn to thrive because of it, even to survive because of it, and so on

toward that, which this arrow of progress seems to have pointed, to civilization and all its complex interweavings. but experience
is a sometimes brutal taskmaster also, and so, if only a way to learn before the doing could be found.

voila! language! the lowest form of grunt communication that could pass on that which was most necessary seems to have,

over a plethora of a great many generations of time, reached up to become the flowering of today s complicated

linguistics. the story of the tower of babel is an excellent example, a kind of parable, of the progression

