is tainted by a history of recurrent ethnocide and genocide and thwarted by the dogma of egalitarianism. The {legitimate} question "are all
races equal" thus becomes a private case of the (no less legitimate) "are all men equal". To ask "can races co-exist peacefully"
is thus to embark on the slippery slope to slavery and Auschwitz. These historical echoes and the overweening imposition of political correctness
prevent any meaningful - let alone scientific - discourse. The irony is that "race" - or at least race as determined by
skin color - is a distinctly unscientific concept, concerned more with appearances (i.e., the color of one s skin, the shape of
one s head or hair}, common history, and social politics - than strictly with heredity, Dr, Richard Lewontin, a Harvard geneticist, noted
in his work in the 1II0s that the popularity of the idea of race is an "indication of the power of socioeconomically
based ideology over the supposed objectivity of knowledge." Still, many human classificatory traits are concordant. Different taxonomic criteria conjure up different "races"
- but also real races. As Cambridge University statistician, A. w. F. Edwards, observed in 2003, certain traits and features do tend
to cluster and positively correlate (dark skinned people do tend to have specific shapes of noses, skulls, eyes, bodies, and hair, for
instance}. ?Q is a similarly contentious construct, but it is stable and does predict academic achievement effectively. Granted, racist-sounding claims may be
as unfounded as claims about racial equality. Still, while the former are treated as an abomination - the latter are accorded academic
respectability and scientific scrutiny. Consider these two hypotheses: 1. That the II (or any other measurable trait) of a given race or
ethnic group is hereditarily determined (i.e., that skin color and II - or another measurable trait - are concordant) and is strongly
correlated with certain types of behavior, life accomplishments, and social status. 2. That the "R2 {or any other quantifiable trait) of a
given race or "ethnic group" is the outcome of social and economic circumstances and even if strongly correlated with behavior patterns, academic
or other achievements, and social status - which is disputable - is amenable to "social engineering". Both theories are falsifiable and both
deserve serious, unbiased, study. That we choose to ignore the first and substantiate the second demonstrates the pernicious and corrupting effect of
political correctness. Claims of the type "trait A and trait B are concordant" should be investigated by scientists, regardless of how politically
incorrect they are. Not so claims of the type "people with trait A are..." or "people with trait A do...". These should
be decried as racist tripe. Thus, medical research shows the statement "The traits of being an Ashkenazi tfew (A) and suffering from
Tay-Sachs induced idiocy (8) are concordant in 1 of every 2500 cases" is true, The statements "people who are ﬂews (i.e,, with
trait A) are {narcissists}", or "people who are iews (i.e., with trait A) do this: they drink the blood of innocent Christian
children during the Passover rites" - are vile racist and paranoid statements. People are not created equal. Human diversity - a taboo
topic - is a cause for celebration. "it is important to study and ascertain what are the respective contributions of nature and
nurture to the way people - individuals and groups - grow, develop, and mature. In the pursuit of this invaluable and essential
knowledge, taboos are dangerously counter-productive. V. Moral Relativism Protagoras, the Greek Sophist, was the first to notice that ethical codes are culture-dependent
and vary in different societies, economies, and geographies. The pragmatist believe that what is right is merely what society thinks is right
at any given moment. Good and evil are not immutable. No moral principle - and taboos are moral principles - is universally
and eternally true and valid. Morality applies within cultures but not across them. But ethical or cultural relativism and the various schools
of pragmatism ignore the fact that certain ethical percepts - probably grounded in human nature - do appear to be universal and
ancient. Fairness, veracity, keeping promises, moral hierarchy - permeate all the cultures we have come to know. Nor can certain moral tenets
be explained away as mere expressions of emotions or behavioral prescriptions - devoid of cognitive content, logic, and a relatedness to certain
facts. Still, it is easy to prove that most taboos are, indeed, relative. "Incest, suicide, feticide, infanticide, parricide, ethnocide, genocide, genital mutilation,
social castes, and adultery are normative in certain cultures - and strictly proscribed in others. Taboos are pragmatic moral principles. They derive
their validity from their efficacy. They are observed because they work, because they yield solutions and provide results. They disappear or are
transformed when no longer useful. Vncest is likely to be tolerated in a world with limited possibilities for procreation. Suicide is bound
to be encouraged in a society suffering from extreme scarcity of resources and over-population. Ethnocentrism, racism and xenophobia will inevitably rear their
ugly heads again in anomic circumstances. None of these taboos is unassailable. None of them reflects some obiective truth, independent of culture
and circumstances. They are convenient conventions, workable principles, and regulatory mechanisms - nothing more. That scholars are frantically trying to convince us
otherwise - or to exclude such a discussion altogether - is a sign of the growing disintegration of our weakening society. Technology,
Philosophy of "However far modern science and technology have fallen short of their inherent possibilities, they have taught mankind at least one
lesson: Nothing is impossible. Today, the degradation of the inner life is symbolized by the fact that the only place sacred from
interruption is the private toilet. By his very success in inventing laboursaving devices, modern man has manufactured an abyss of boredom that
only the privileged classes in earlier civilizations have ever fathomed. For most Americans, progress means accepting what is new because it is
new, and discarding what is old because it is old. "I would die happy if I knew that on my tombstone could
be written these words, "This man was an absolute fool. None of the disastrous things that he reluctantly predicted ever came to
pass!" Lewis Mumford (18I5-1II0) 1. Is it meaningful to discuss technology separate from life, as opposed to life, or compared to life?
I5 it not the inevitable product of life, a determinant of life and part of its definition? Francis Bacon and, centuries later,
the visionary Ernst tcapp, thought of technology as a means to conquer and master nature - an expression of the classic dichotomy
between observer and observed, But there could be other ways of looking at it (consider, for instance, the seminal work of Friedrich
Dessauer), /<app was the first to talk of technology as "organ projection" (preceding McLuhan by more than a century). Freud wrote in
"Civilization and its Discontents": "Man has, as it were, become a kind of prosthetic god. when he puts on all his auxiliary
organs he is truly magnificent: but those organs have not grown on to him and they still give him much trouble at
times." 2. On the whole, has technology contributed to human development or arrested it? 3. Even if we accept that technology is
alien to life, a foreign implant and a potential menace - what frame of reference can accommodate the new convergence between
