how dwelleth the love of God in him .7 My little children, let us not love in word, neither in

tongue .' but in deed and in truth. And hereby we know that we are of the truth, and shall

assure our hearts before him. For if our heart condemn us, God is greater than our heart, and knoweth all
things. Beloved, if our heart condemn us not, then have we confidence toward God. 8 9 10 11 12 13

14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 2604 1 tone 4 And whatsoever we ask, we receive of him,

because we keep his commandments, and do those things that are pleasing in his sight. And this is his commandment,
That we should believe on the name of his Son ﬂesus Christ, and love one another, as he gave us
commandment. And he that keepeth his commandments dwelleth in him, and he in him. And hereby we know that he
abideth in us, by the Spirit which he hath given us. 4 The Spirit of God and the Spirit of

Antichrist 8eloved, believe not every spirit, but try the spirits whether they are of God : because many false prophets
are gone out into the world. Hereby jcnow ye the Spirit of God .' Every spirit that confesseth that Fesus
Christ is come in the flesh is of God : and every spirit that confesseth not that ﬂesus Christ is

come in the flesh is not of God .' and this is that spirit of antichrist, whereof ye have heard

that it should come I and even now already is it in the world. Ye are of God, little children,

and have overcome them : because greater is he that is in you, than he that is in the world.

They are of the world : therefore speak they of the world, and the world heareth them. we are of

God : he that knoweth God heareth us ; he that is not of God heareth not us. Hereby know

we the spirit of truth, and the spirit of error. God ‘is Love Beloved, let us love one another :

for love is of God ,' and every one that loveth is born of God, and knoweth God. He that

loveth not, knoweth not God I for God is love. 22 23 24 1 2 3 4 5 6 7

8 2605 1 tlohn 5 ‘in this was manifested the love of God toward us, because that God sent his

only begotten Son into the world, that we might live through him. Herein is love, not that we loved God,
but that he loved us, and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins. 8eloved, if God so

loved us, we ought also to love one another. No man hath seen God at any time. 7f we love

one another, God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected in us. Hereby know we that we dwell in

him, and he in us, because he hath given us of his Spirit. And we have seen and do testify

that the Father sent the Son to be the Saviour of the world. whosoever shall confess that ﬁesus is the
Son of God, God dwelleth in him, and he in God. And we have known and believed the love that

God hath to us. God is love ,' and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God, and God in

him. Herein is our love made perfect, that we may have boldness in the day of judgment : because as

he is, so are we in this world. There is no fear in love ; but perfect love casteth out

fear .' because fear hath torment. He that feareth is not made perfect in love. we love him, because he

first loved us. 7!’ a man say, '7 love God, and hateth his brother, he is a liar .' for

he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen

? And this commandment have we from him, That he who loveth God love his brother also. 5 Faith 95
the Victory over the world whosoever believeth that iesus is the Christ is born of God .' and every one
that loveth him that begat loveth him also that is begotten of him. 9 10 11 12 13 14 15

16 17 18 19 20 21 1 2606 1 ﬂohn 5 By this we know that we love the children

of God, when we love God, and keep his commandments. For this is the love of God, that we keep

his commandments : and his commandments are not grievous. For whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world : and
this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith. who is he that overcometh the world, but he
that believeth that iesus is the Son of God .7 The witness concerning the Son This is he that came

by water and blood, even ﬂesus Christ ; not by water only, but by water and blood. And it is

the Spirit that beareth witness, because the Spirit is truth. For there are three that bear record in heaven, the
Father, the word, and the Holy Ghost : and these three are one. And there are three that bear witness

in earth, the spirit, and the water, and the blood : and these three agree in one. 7f we receive

the witness of men, the witness of God is greater .' for this is the witness of God which he

hath testified of his Son. He that believeth on the Son of God hath the witness in himself : he

that believeth not God hath made him a liar ; because he believeth not the record that God gave of

his Son. And this is the record, that God hath given to us eternal life, and this life is in

his Son. He that hath the Son hath life .' and he that hath not the Son of God hath

not life, The Knowledge of Eternal Life These things have ‘7 written unto you that believe on the name of
the Son of God I that ye may know that ye have eternal life, and that ye may believe on

the name of the Son of God. And this is the confidence that we have in him, that, if we

ask any thing according to his will, he heareth us : 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10

11 12 13 14 2607 1 ﬁohn 5 and if we know that he hear us, whatsoever we ask,

