humans where to find us." "then where are we going?" "by nightfall we should reach an outpost. we can stay
there until tomorrow." "and then where?" sara asked. "the netherworld?" "no. we have to go to vesuvia and see the
council. they need to know what s going on, and they re likely upset that i haven t returned yet."
"vesuvia? we re actually going to vesuvia? that s your capital, isn t it?" "kind of, it s the only
city we have." "just one city? it must be huge to hold all of your people." "yeah, compared to what
humans have here in rhea. but i guess it s not really fair since we ve been here for ages
and you humans made your first settlement...what was it, a little over a hundred years ago?" "i m not exactly
sure," sara answered. "a hundred and fifty years, i think." "no way," leon said. "it can t be older than
me. i remember seeing the first human settlers." "what?! you don t look a day past twentyfive." "i m a
hundred and fortythree." leon said. "and you?" "i just turned twentyone a few weeks ago," sara said. "do all vesuvians
age that slowly?" "pretty much," leon said, breaking several small branches in his path. there was a brief moment of
silence as sara continued to follow. "how old do vesuvians "good question. no one really knows." "you re telling me
no vesuvian has ever died of old age? how is that?" "well, the oldest one is maybe two thousand years
old." "?o every vesuvian that came before him died of unnatural causes?" "yup," leon answered. "and please don t ask
me to explain all the different ways a vesuvian can die. but i can tell you the eldest vesuvian to
ever live, an orlok, died shortly before humans first stepped foot on rhea." "what s an orlok?" sara asked. "one
of the vesuvian houses, and now that i remember, an orlok can be younger than me and still look ugly
as sin. they start out fine, but they go downhill fast." sara laughed. "that bad, huh? how many houses are
there?" "seven." "that s it? which one do you belong?" at that moment leon stopped in front of a narrow,
fivefoot deep ditch with a small stream running through it. he hopped down and extended a helping hand to sara.
ignoring the offer, sara hopped down as well. leon shrugged and skipped over the narrow stream before making a scarcely
believable eight foot leap up to the other side of the ditch. it wasn t until sara crossed the stream
that she realized the difficulty of the obstacle in front of her. leon knelt down and again extended his hand.
this time sara accepted, and with a quick pull by leon, she was up on the other side of the
ditch. as leon turned to move on, sara gripped his hand tight and pulled. "which house?" she asked. leon gently
pulled away. "all of them," he said. after several hours of travel, sara and leon came to a small clearing
and stopped. sara was becoming exhausted. stretching her legs, she could see several small buildings across the clearing, and noticed
dusk was fast approaching. "there s the outpost," leon said, still looking as fresh as when they journey started. "you
can rest up there." "leon, you re not tired?" sara asked. "not really," leon answered, walking toward the outpost with
sara close behind. "i hope your beds are comfy." "just let me do the talking." when they reached the outpost,
leon knocked on the door. a small peephole slid open and a male voice with an accent spoke. "what you
s doing here?!" "i m escorting this human to see the council," leon said. "what s the matter? ya lost?"
"the human needs rest." the peephole slammed shut and the door opened. standing before leon was a grungylooking man of
similar height, with braided hair down to the shoulders. sara could see both of his arms were covered with tattoos.
"come in," he said, stepping aside. leon entered and quickly looked around. "you alone?" "yeah," the vesuvian guard said, and
then sitting at a table with cards laid out. sara entered, making sure to stick close to leon as she
examined the dimly lit room. leon pointed. "the bed is right over there." "thanks," sara said, then walking over and
sat at the edge of the bed. leon sat across from the guard, who was busy playing with the cards.
"what s the council want with a human?" the guard asked. "not much," leon said. "with everything that s going
on, they want to see if they can help." the guard laughed. "help? them?" sara ignored the insult. "i take
it you haven t met many humans," leon said, watching the llvard play. "they re full of surprises." "i 1I3
sure," the guard said. sara sat, rubbing her legs, though never taking her eyes off the vesuvians. "how far have
you gotten?" leon asked of the game. "i ve never been able to win." the guard stifled a laugh. "everyone
knows that. you still got the fastest record for using all your moves at nella s pub." sara noticed leon
shift as if he wasn t too comfortable, and that made her uncomfortable. "tell you what," leon said to the
guard. "why don t you take the night off? i ll cover for the guard looked at leon for a
moment. "you got no bloody argument here." he stood up and walked out. leon walked to the door and locked
it. "he wasn t too friendly," sara said. leon shrugged and lay on a bed across the room. sara lay
down al?o. "i thought you weren t tired," she said. "sleep saves energy," leon responded. sara yawned. "good night, leon."
"good night," leon said before dozing off for several hours. at ?ome point in the middle of the night, leon
began to constantly shift in bed, making small grunting noises. before long, he woke sitting upright, sweating and out
