not a military or an economic one. we, the Macedonians, have survived through our culture and in our cultural space, often unaware
of it." "You mentioned the fight against the occupiers in world war II. But did you fight the Nazis as Macedonians or
as communists?" "The Liberation Movement had national and communist strands. After the territory was freed, the nationalists were persecuted or, like /<:iro
Gligorov, our first president, transferred to 8elgrade, to be closely monitored. The Macedonian national movement was always in coalition with the ethnic
minorities here. we inherited our multi-cultural tolerant pluralism from the Ottomans. This was the basis for our inclusive constitution that prevented the
strife that characterized all the other republics that succeeded Yugoslavia. True, nowadays, Macedonians distance themselves from the Albanians, but there is no
active preiudice, no political mobilization to discriminate against the minorities and, thus, bring about conflict. what I call the Macedonian momentum of
silence survives in the gap between active and passive prejudice: no acceptance, but tolerance and toleration. That s why all these early
warning reports fail. The Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs is now making the same mistake by boasting that it has saved Europe
from embracing an unstable country." I ask: "Not entirely stable. The Albanians took up arms in 2001 and forced Macedonia s leaders
to sign the Ohrid Framework Agreement ..." "I welcome the changes that we introduced to the constitution in 2001, they had real-life
legal consequences. It was a new inclusive beginning, mediated by the foreign powers. Had we not faced an insurrection, we would still
have been forced to implement the very same changes by the European Union, on the way to accession. The Agreement is decried
by some Macedonians because they are enamored with language and its power. This is the result of fear, not reason. Language reform
{granting minorities the right to use their languages in some circumstances and settings - SV) is not the first step towards federalization.
The foreigners are right in this respect. Albanian hasn t become a second official language. It can be used only in very
particular cases. Of course, some constructive ambiguity here saved the day. The Albanians were told that the right to use their language
was a ma/"or accomplishment, the Macedonians were soothed with the promise that Albanian can and will be employed solely in a restricted
fashion. The language of the articles in the Ohrid Agreement is clear-cut, the interpretation helpfully ambiguous and allows everyone to save face
and declare victory ". "The Ohrid Agreement, I am told by foreigners, is the only state-reaffirming, functional compact ever signed in the
Balkans. All other agreements dealt with post-traumatic outcomes of state dissolution and the ensuing confusion. It is short, but has disproportional symbolic
significance. And don t forget that we did not negotiate directly with the insurgents. The USA and the EU guaranteed the equal-handed
implementation of any understanding we reached and this was good enough for everyone concerned." I inter/"ect: "Then why has the same formula
failed to work in the case of the name negotiations with Greece that have been going nowhere for 1I years with US
mediation? In NATO s March 2008 Bucharest Summit, Macedonia was not invited to ioin the alliance because it would not succumb to
Greek intransigence: Greece insisted that Macedonia should change its constitutional name to cater to Greek domestic political sensitivities..." Frckoski: "Macedonia is actually
not negotiating with Greece. They don t treat us as partners. It was the same with the Ohrid Agreement: we had dealings
with the Americans and that provided the insurgents with the legitimacy to reach a compromise ("If the Americans say it s OK,
then we can safely go for it!"}. we needed the mediators to allow the Albanians to strike a deal without being lynched
by their own extremists. And, you know what? This Agreement will survive because of the guarantees embedded in it. we have no
alternative. The current debate between Macedonians and Albanians is about interpretation, within the framework of the text, with a view to legal
instruments of the EU regarding minorities, cultural identities, and human rights. The Badinter principle has not been abused even once! (A principle
in the agreement that requires dual maiorities - of the entire parliaments and of the Albanian MPs to pass laws pertaining to
inter-ethnic issues - SV). Previous SDSM (socialist) governments made two breaches in this protective wall, though. They allowed the issuance of bilingual
passports, thus expanding the role of the Albanian language beyond the original scope: and they accredited Tetovo university, a chaotic institution that
openly defied the law, As for the Greeks, should they succeed in their quest to ostracize us and deny our identity, all
the others will climb on the bandwagon." the Bulgarians, the Serbs. I see no problem for us to adopt a composite name
such as the New Republic of Macedonia, Upper Macedonia, and so on. 8ut, we cannot give up the non-exclusive use of the
adiective and title Macedonian . we may discuss what it denotes: its cultural, linguistic, and historical connotations. what we cannot and will
not discuss is giving it up all together. This is the red line. Regrettably, the Greeks themselves have been changing their positions
and demands dizzyingly." - he sighs. On to the greater world. I suggest that Macedonia may have a Russian option or card
to play, Frckoski dismisses this scenario off-hand: "It is good that the Americans have shifted their intelligence base from Athens to Skop/"e,
This move may antagonize Greece and Serbia, where the Russian presence is increasing. Even Bulgaria may be reverting to its Russophile roots.
8ut, Macedonia must serve as the soft border between east and west. Macedonians should overcome their instinctive and misguided feelings about Russian
brotherhood and adhere to the national interests of Macedonia. Russia was always against an independent Macedonian state: an unstable entity, in their
view, that may ieopardize Russian interests, policies, and presence throughout the region. Moreover, Russia represents an attempt to link ethnic homogeneity to
Christian Orthodoxy which, if imported to Macedonia, will surely lead to the dreaded federalization. The new government can t say, as they
currently do: who cares about the Albanians? we must co-exist with the Albanians. It took us years to sever the umbilical cord
to Serbia s Commonwealth of states. The Serbs never forgave Gligorov for his role in this historic separation. Enough said." In 1II5,
an assassination attempt was made on President Kim: Gligorov s life. His face was disfigured, but his stature among Macedonians grew as
a result. "If you alone, of all your neighbors, serve as a forward base of the USA, you may find yourself as
isolated as Israel is in the Middle East." - I venture. "Isolation is our history." - Frckoski reacts gloomily - "Macedonia has
always been its neighbors nightmare. If our multiculturalism succeeds, the decline of their ethnically homogeneous model of statehood will hasten. we threaten
their very foundations. This is a semiotic clash between meanings, symbols, identities, language, approaches. Once we understand this, we will develop a
cohesive national consensus." Another subiect: the ruling coalition, led by Nikola Gruevski and the right-wing VMRO-DPMNE party, has just won the elections
with a landslide. "This is a counter-reformation, a reaction against the former political elites. It comes replete with its own ersatz
