mark my words. we re way ahead of them and that s ninety percent of the battle," "thanks guys, we
/"ust don t want to be the cause of more problems," says iay. "don t worry about a thing. we
can handle it," says david. the meeting breaks up and /"ay and mike go back to their apartment. mike says,
"i m still worried. what if something should go wrong and they actually do bomb the place?" "i know. i
think we should keep our eyes open and if things look bad, we clear out of here quick and let
iack know we re on the move. i don t want to do anything that would get anyone else hurt,"
says iay. "i agree. but if we do make a run for it, no canaries." "oh yeah? we ll see
about that." mark and sid sit in their car parked a block up the street from the club eating their
burgers and watching the loading dock. several trucks arrive and off load supplies. a little after two o clock a
beer delivery truck pulls up. the name on the side says arrowmark distributing.a driver with a clipboard gets out and
goes in the club. a few minutes later he returns and begins offloading kegs of beer, delivering them and returning
with the empties. they count the kegs, ten in all. mark has a pair of binoculars and sees that they
re all millers, the name he remembers seeing on the taps inside. that s the house beer. eventually the driver
closes up the truck and returns to the club with his clipboard. a few minutes later, he s back, gets
in the truck, cranks up the diesel and rumbles off. mark and sid follow. a few blocks away, he pulls
up to a bar and grill and goes inside. mark and sid pull up and park a hundred feet away.
sid says, "see that? no clipboard and be locked the door to the cab. this doesn t look like a
delivery. this might be our chance to talk to him. let s go," "yeah, and that place is more like
a restaurant. must be a late lunch." they hop out of the car and quickly jog up the street, sid
pretends to look at the menu in the window while mark stays to one side. inside, sid sees the driver
sitting at the bar with a menu. sid says, "yep, he s ordering food. let s go." they enter and
head to the bar. there are stools to the right of the driver. they take off their coats and hang
them on hooks near the door. mark goes over and sits next to the driver while sid sits next to
mark. mark signals the bartender and says, "couple a beers and some onion rings?" sid says, across mark, "say buddy,
is that your truck outside?" the driver, drinking a cup of coffee looks over and says, "yeah, it not blocking
anything, is it?" "no, no, i was just curious, how much does one of those weigh when it s fully
loaded? i ll bet that beer weighs a whole lot?" "yep it s pretty heavy. one of those kegs alone
weighs over a hundred sixty pounds. but the truck weight is limited by zoning. usually not more than ten tons."
"must take a pretty big engine?" "oh, yeah, big old cummins diesel." "you been driving for long?" "no, i m
just filling in today for a guy on vacation. i normally drive a package delivery truck." "you ever deliver to
that big dance club a couple a blocks east of here? i ll bet they take a lot of beer?"
"oh yeah, just stopped there. ten kegs of millers on monday and wednesday and twelve on friday, they sure do
go through an awful lot of it." "sure sounds that way. you say monday, wednesday friday, so, is it pretty
much always the same route?" "oh yeah. well the truck does the same route, anyway. but i just do this
on monday through wednesday. some ohure guy does the rest of the week. but yeah, with a truck that long,
you don t have a lot of flexibility. i go one route monday and wednesday and anohure on tuesday. not
a lot of variety except when the city tear; up the street." "yeah, i guess with a load like that
you gotta know the way. not a lot of room to back up, i guess?" "no, that s not a
good idea." "hey, it s been nice talking to you. we gotta run," says mark as he and sid finish
their beers. they get up, get their coats and head outside where mark says, "i need to get in that
truck and look at the clipboard. that ll have his exact schedule on it." they quickly iimmy the truck s
door lock and grab the clipboard that s sitting on the passenger seat. mark scans it while sid acts as
lookout. after a few seconds, mark says, "i got it. we need to pay a visit to mack s grill.
it s the stop before the dance club." they drive a few blocks away and park and go into mack
s. once inside the nearly empty place, they sit at the bar and order two more beers. mark casually asks
the bartender, "i ll bet the snow makes it hard to get beer deliveries?" "nah, they re as regular as
clock work, snow or no snow every monday, wednesday and friday at 1:30." "i guess beer s too important," laughs
sid. the bartender laughs and says, "you got that right." after a while, they finish their beers and leave. back
in their car, sid says, "geez that was easy." mark says, "right about that. now let s go get a
couple of six packs and take a break," as they head for their motel. the next morning, mark calls foe
from his cell phone and says, "we got that information you wanted. the distributer is arrowmark distributing and they
