was very 161 of 1241 Of Human Bondage much distressed. He was unkind

and unchristian. He must know they Were only trying to do their best

for him, and they Were so much older than he that they must

be better iudges of what was good for him. Philip clenched his hands.

He had heard that statement so often, and he could not see why

it was true; they did not know the conditions as he did, why

should they accept it as self-evident that their greater age gave them greater
wisdom? The letter ended with the information that Mr. Carey had withdrawn the
notice he had given, Philip nursed his wrath till the next half-holiday. They
had them on Tuesdays and Thursdays, since on Saturday afternoons they had to
go to a service in the Cathedral. He stopped behind when the rest

of the Sixth went out. May 9 go to 8lackstable this afternoon, please,

sir? he asked. No, said the headmaster briefly. 9 wanted to see my

uncle about something very important. Didn t you hear me say no.’ Philip
did not answer. He went out. He felt almost sick with humiliation, the
humiliation of having to ask and the humiliation of the curt refusal. He
hated the headmaster now, Philip writhed under that despotism which never 162 of
1241 Of Human Bondage vouchsafed a reason for the most tyrannous act. He
was too angry to care what he did, and after dinner walked down

to the station, by the back ways he knew so well, iust in

time to catch the train to Blackstable. He walked into the vicarage and

found his uncle and aunt sitting in the dining-room. Hulloa, where have you
sprung from? said the Vicar. 9t was very clear that he was not

pleased to see him. He looked a little uneasy. 9 thought 9 d

come and see you about my leaving. 9 want to know what you

mean by promising me one thing when 9 was here, and doing something
different a week after. He was a little frightened at his own boldness,

but he had made up his mind exactly what words to use, and,

though his heart beat violently, he forced himself to say them. Have you
got leave to come here this afternoon? No. 9 asked Perkins and he

refused. 9f you like to write and tell him 9 ve been here

you can get me into a really fine old row. Mrs. Carey sat

knitting with trembling hands. She was unused to scenes and they agitated her
extremely. 9t would serve you right if 9 told him, said Mr. Carey.

163 of 1241 Of Human Bondage ‘if you like to be a perfect

sneak you can. After writing to Perkins as you did you re quite

capable of it. 9t was foolish of Philip to say that, because it

gave the Vicar exactly the opportunity he wanted. 9 m not going to

sit still while you say impertinent things to me, he said with dignity.

He got up and walked quickly out of the room into his study.

Philip heard him shut the door and lock it. Oh, 9 wish to

God 9 were twenty-one. 9t is awful to be tied down like this.

Aunt Louisa began to cry quietly. Oh, Philip, you oughtn t to have

spoken to your uncle like that. Do please go and tell him you

re sorry. 9 m not in the least sorry. He s taking a

mean advantage. Of course it s just waste of money keeping me on

at school, but what does he care? 9t s not his money. 9t

was cruel to put me under the guardianship of people who know nothing
about things. Philip. Philip in his voluble anger stopped suddenly at the sound
of her voice. 9t was heart-broken. He had not realised what bitter things

he was saying. Philip, how can you be so unkind.’ You know

