those texts refer to the genus of all souls, i.e. to the fact that all souls are of the same
nature2I. On the contrary he says in the Puranas we find passages to the effect that Vamadeva has been liberated,
Shuck has been liberated. "if soul were one, since the liberation of all would take place on the liberation of
one the mention of diverse liberation s would be self contradictory30. .I. The soul is not considered by the Sankhya
bound to matter. Vt is not bound, nor is it liberated. Vt is free. It has a delusive semblance of
being bound. The nature of the soul is constant freedom and indifference to pleasure and pain alike31. 10. These are
the basic principals of the Sankhya philosophy. "In short, according to its doctrines Prakriti and Purush are enough in themselves
to and the idea of a creator is looked upon by the Sankhya as a mere redundant phantom of philosophy32.
11. we may now enter into the details of this philosophy, "In the first place let us ask kcapila what
the motive is for the creation of the universe. He mentions two motives; they might have appeared satisfactory to him
but to me his reply is not rational. He says that Prakriti created the universe for the emancipation of the
soul which is really though not apparently emancipated or, secondly, for the removal of itself, i.e. for the sake of
removing the actually real pain which consists of itself, as his commentator explains it33. "it the soul is essentially free
and essentially light, there was no necessity for Prakriti to interfere with the soul s infinite bliss. That soul is
really though not apparently emancipated means that it is really emancipated but appears to be not so. Gandhi s interpretation
of the phrase seems to be somewhat far fetched, but he is apparently following some commentator. The more natural interpretation
of the phrase should be: "Or we may say that Prakriti created the universe for the sake of itself ,
that is, for the sake of the removal of pain that really belongs to itself."/ls we have noted, in the
Sankhya philosopher s eyes pain is a phenomenon belongsing to Prakriti rather than to Purush. 12. Let us examine the
other stages of creation. "I told you in the beginning that from Prakriti sprang the Great Mind. what is this
Great Mind? /éapila says: Vt is intellect and iudgement or ascertainment is its peculiar modification; and Dharma, gyan, Vairagya, Aeshvarya
i,e, merit, knowledge, dispassion and supernatural power arise out of it when there is in it a superlative degree of
the first if the three qualities, i.e. Satv, purity or passivity. 8ut demerit, ignorance, non dispassion and want of supernatural
power arise out of it when there is in it a preponderance of the other two qualities34. From the great
principal the Greet Mind, we were told, is produced Ahankara i.e. self consciousness. "it is what makes the Ego. It
is the same as Antakaran i.e. the internal instrument35. we were also told that the eleven organs and five subtle
elements are produced from self consciousness. But there is this distinction that the eleventh organ, the mind proceeds from self
consciousness in which the first quality Satv, purity or passivity preponderates, while the other ten organs proceed from self consciousness
in which the second quality activity or passion predominates, and the five subtle elements proceed from self consciousness in which
the third quality darkness or grossness predominates36. "I have already enumerated the eleven organs. The popular opinion is that the
organs are formed of gross elements. But the Sankhya doctrine is that is not so because the Veda does not
support that view and we know that kcapila could not assume an attitude of direct opposition to the "Vedas3I. There
was another popular opinion about this mind organ. It was that it is eternal, but !<apila says that none of
the organs is eternal because the Vedas say so and because we see that they are destroyed.38 Further he says
that mind is the leading organ while the other ten are kinds of powers.3I All these organs are mere instruments.
As a king even without himself taking an active part becomes a warrior simply by employing an army, so does
the soul, although quiescent, through the different organs, become a seer, a speaker, a iudge and the like, merely by
reason of its proximity with these organs-N. There are some special properties belonging to the Great "Intellect, self consciousness and
the mind. Attention or thought is the special property of the "Intellect, conceit of personality is the property of self
consciousness, and decision and doubt of the mind41, while the five airs known as Pran etc. are the common properties
of all of them42. The modifications of the organs are Prman. Vipreya, Vikalp, Nidra, Smriti, evidence, chimera, sleep and memory.
Some of them are painful, and others not painful43. when these modifications cease to exist the soul comes to a
state of self quiet44. The Yoga philosophy has the same doctrine. The very word Yoga means concentration and is defined
as the suppression of the modifications of the thinking principal45. 13. we will go still deeper into iéapila s philosophy.
we have enumerated in the beginning the 25 principals commencing with Prakriti and ending with Purusa. Prakriti as Prakriti in
a state of equilibrium is unable to produce anything. Vt is only when equilibrium is disturbed that the creation follows.
Purush the soul itself is neither the producer nor the produced. whence is the human body created according to this
philosophy? /<:apila says that out of the remaining twenty three principals a pair of bodies sthool shreer and Sooksham shreer
gross body and subtle body originates.46 "In fact the twenty three principals act as the seed. out of which the
body is produced and the fact that the soul becomes conditioned by the 23 principals is the cause of its
going from one body to another in fact the cause of all mundane existence4I, and this mundane existence continues for
each soul so long as it does not discriminate the difference between soul and Prakriti48. "it should be noted how
ever that according to i<apila s theory the soul is not really fettered by matter, it only has a wrong
impression that it is fettered. Really it is quite free. Only it does not realize this fact so long as
it is in mundane existence. we come again to the pair of bodies the gross body and the subtle body.
The gross body usually though not always arises from father and mother, while the subtle body is a creation
