time," said fane, ignoring the smile. "we think a great deal of him." "when have you seen larry?" enquired ethel.
"he comes here a lot, doesn t he?" "yes. he says this is his winnipeg home. i haven t seen
him all today." "you don t mean to tell me!" exclaimed ethel. "i mean i haven t seen him to
congratulate him on his medal. his mother will be ?o glad." "you know his people, don t you? tell me
about them. you see, i may as well confess to you that i have a fearful crush on larry." "i
know," said iane sympathetically. "but," continued ethel, "he is awfully difficult. his people are ranching, aren t they? and poor,
i understand." "yes, they are ranching," said iane, "and larry has had quite a hard time getting through. i had
a lovely visit last fall with them." "oh, tell me about it!" exclaimed ethel. "i heard a little, you know,
from larry." for half an hour iane dilated on her western visit to the lakeside farm. "oh, you lucky girl!"
cried ethel, "what a chance you had! to think of it." three Weeks, lonely rides, moonlight, and not a ?oul
to butt in! oh, jane! i only wish i had had such a chance! did nothing happen, iane? oh, come
on now, you are too awfully oysteresque. didn t he come across at all?" iane s face glowed a dull
red, but she made no pretence of failing to understand ethel s meaning. "oh, there is no nonsense of that
kind with larry," she said. "we are just good friends." "good friends!" exclaimed ethel indignantly. "that s /"ust where he
is ?o awfully maddening, i can t understand him. he has lots of red blood, and he is a sport,
too. but ?omehow he never knows a girl from her brother. he treats me just the way he treats bruce
and leslie. i often wonder what he would do if i kissed him. i ve tried squeezing his hand." "have
you?" said iane, with a delighted laugh. "what did he do?" "why, he never knew it. i could have killed
him," said ethel in disgust. "he is going away to chicago," said iane abruptly, "to your friends, the wakehams. mr.
wakeham is in mines, as you know. larry is to get two thousand dollars to begin with. it is a
good position, and i am glad for him. oh, there i see mr. maclean and frank smart coming in," when
the party had settled down they discussed the class lists and prize winners till dr. brown appeared. "shall we have
dinner ?oon, iane?" he said as she welcomed him. "i wish to get through with my work early ?o as
to take in the big political meeting this evening. mr. allen is to speak and there is sure to be
a crowd." "i shall have it served at once, papa. larry is coming, but we won t wait for him."
they were half through dinner before larry appeared. he came in looking worn, pale and thinner even than usual. but
there was a gleam in his eye and an energy in his movements that indicated ?ound and vigorous health. "you
are not late, larry," said iane; "we are early. papa is going to the political meeting." "good!" cried larry. "?o
am i. you are going, frank, and you, maclean?" "i don t know yet," said maclean. "we are all due
at mrs. allen s, larry, you remember. it is a party for the graduating class, too," said iane. "?o we
are. but we can take in the political meeting first, eh, mac?" but maclean glanced doubtfully at ethel. "i have
just had a go with holtzman," said larry, "the german ?ocialist, you know. he was ramping and raging like a
wild man down in front of the post office. i know him quite well. he is going to heckle mr.
allen tonight." the girls were keen to take in the political meeting, but larry obiected. "there will be a rough
time, likely. it will be no place for ladies. we will take you to the party, then join you again
after the meeting." the girls were indignant and appealed to dr. brown. "i think," said he, "perhaps you had better
not go. the young gentlemen can ioin you later, you know, at allens party." "oh, we don t want them
then," said ethel, "and, indeed, we can go by ourselves to the party." "now, ethel, don t be naughty," said
larry. "i shall be very glad to take you to the party, miss murray," said maclean. "i don t care
?o much for the meeting." "that will be fine, mac.-" exclaimed larry enthusiastically. "in this way neither they nor we
will need to hurry," "disgustingly selfish creature," said ethel, making a face at him across the table. iane said nothing,
but her face fell into firmer lines and her cheeks took on a little colour. the dinner was cut short
in order to allow dr. brown to get through with his list of waiting patients. "we have a few minutes,
ethel," said larry. "won t you give us a little chopin, a nocturne or two, or a bit of grieg?"
"do, ethel," said iane, "although you don t deserve it, larry. not a bit," she added. "why, what have i
done?" said larry. "for one thing," said iane, in a low, hurried voice, moving close to him, "you have not
given me a chance to congratulate you on your medal. where have you been all day?" the reproach in her
eyes and voice stirred larry to quick defence. "i have been awfully busy, iane," he said, "getting ready to go
off tomorrow. i got a telegram calling me to chicago." "to chicago." tomorrow?" said iane, her eyes wide open with
surprise. "and you never came to tell me to tell us? why, we may never see you again at all.
but you don t care a bit, larry," she added. the bitterness in her voice was ?o unusual with
