for her children, and would not be comforted, because they are not. But when Herod was dead, behold, an angel
of the Lord appeareth in a dream to ﬂoseph in Egypt, saying, Arise, and take the young child and his
mother, and go into the land of Israel : for they are dead which sought the young child s life.
And he arose, and took the young child and his mother, and came into the land of Vsrael. But when
he heard that Archelaus did reign in iludea in the room of his father Herod, he was afraid to go
thither : notwithstanding, being warned of God in a dream, he turned aside into the parts of Galilee ." 13
14 15 16 1I 18 1I 20 21 22 2015 Matthew 3 and he came and dwelt in a city
called Nazareth : that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophets, He shall be called a Nazarene.
3 The Preaching of Iohn the Baptist "in those days came ﬂohn the Baptist, preaching in the wilderness of Fudea,
and saying, Repent ye : for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. For this is he that was spoken
of by the prophet Vsaiah, saying, The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the
Lord, make his paths straight. And the same ﬂohn had his raiment of camel s hair, and a leathern girdle
about his loins ," and his meat was locusts and wild honey. Then went out to him ﬂerusalem, and all
iludea, and all the region round about ilordan, and were baptized of him in Fordan, confessing their sins. But when
he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees come to his baptism, he said unto them, 0 generation of vipers,
who hath warned you to flee from the wrath to come ? Bring forth therefore fruits meet for repentance :
and think not to say within yourselves, we have Abraham to our father ." for I say unto you, that
God is able of these stones to raise up children unto Abraham. And now also the axe is laid unto
the root of the trees : therefore every tree which bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down, and cast
into the fire. "I indeed baptize you with water unto repentance : but he that cometh after me is mightier
than "I, whose shoes I am not worthy to bear : he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost, and
with fire : 23 1 2 3 4 5 6 I 8 I 10 11 2016 Matthew 4 whose fan
is in his hand, and he will thoroughly purge his floor, and gather his wheat into the garner ." but
he will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire. The Baptism of ilesus Then cometh ilesus from Galilee to ilordan
unto ﬂohn, to be baptized of him. But Fohn forbade him, saying, "i have need to be baptized of thee,
and comest thou to me ." And ilesus answering said unto him, Suffer it to be so now ." for
thus it becometh us to fulfil all righteousness. Then he suffered him. And Fesus, when he was baptized, went up
straightway out of the water : and, lo, the heavens were opened unto him, and he saw the Spirit of
God descending like a dove, and lighting upon him : and lo a voice from heaven, saying, This is my
beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. 4 The Temptation of Fesus Then was ﬂesus led up of the
Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted of the devil. And when he had fasted forty days and forty nights,
he was afterward ahungered. And when the tempter came to him, he said, "if thou be the Son of God,
command that these stones be made bread. But he answered and said, "It is written, Man shall not live by
bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. Then the devil taketh him up
into the holy city, and setteth him on a pinnacle of the temple, and saith unto him, If thou be
the Son of God, cast thyself down : for it is written, 12 13 14 15 16 1I 1 2
3 4 5 6 201I Matthew 4 He shall give his angels charge concerning thee : and in their hands
they shall bear thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot against a stone. iesus said unto him,
"it is written again, Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God. Again, the devil taketh him up into an
exceeding high mountain, and showeth him all the kingdoms of the world, and the glory of them ; and saith
unto him, All these things will "I give thee, if thou wilt fall down and worship me. Then saith iesus
unto him, Get thee hence, Satan ." for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him
only shalt thou serve. Then the devil leaveth him, and, behold, angels came and ministered unto him. Fesus Begins His
Ministry Now when ilesus had heard that ilohn was cast into prison, he departed into Galilee ." and leaving Nazareth,
he came and dwelt in Capernaum, which is upon the seacoast, in the borders of Zebulun and Naphtali : that
it might be fulfilled which was spoken by Isaiah the prophet, saying, The land of Zebulun, and the land of
Naphtali, by the way of the sea, beyond ilordan, Galilee of the Gentiles ; the people which sat in darkness
saw great light ," and to them which sat in the region and shadow of death light is sprung up.
From that time ﬁesus began to preach, and to say, Repent : for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.
I 3 I 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 1I 2018 Matthew 5 ﬂesus calls Four Fishermen And eesus,
walking by the sea of Galilee, saw two brethren, Simon called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into
the sea : for they were fishers. And he saith unto them, Follow me, and "I will make you fishers
of men, And they straightway left their nets, and followed him. And going on from thence, he saw other two
brethren, ﬂames the son of Zebedee, and iohn his brother, in a ship with Zebedee their father, mending their nets
; and he called them. And they immediately left the ship and their father, and followed him. Fesus Ministers to
a Great Multitude And ilesus went about all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the gospel of the
