were everywhere. people walked down the sidewalks wearing anything from tattered rags to expensive business suits, cyclists passed them, most
wearing backpacks and helmets. at each intersection, the monotonous clinking of the crosswalk filled the air. they rode through when
the lights were green and stopped with the traffic when they were red. after moving beyond the tallest and most
extravagant buildings, they made their way north on randolph boulevard. they climbed a difficult hill. at the top, they decided
to take a rest on one of the benches outside the gates of a large walking park. the three panted
as they laid their bikes on top of one anohure and sat on the bench. "i m so thirsty," travis
groaned. "me too. and hungry," added miles. "we should have been better prepared!" "we have money and there s a
braum s across the street," dan said. "we can get everything we need from there." "at an ice-cream store?" travis
cocked his brow. "you d be surprisingd." dan got up and walked to the crosswalk nearby. the ohure two followed.
they entered the braum s and spent fifteen minutes trying to figure out what they wanted to eat and drink
over what they should eat and drink. dan and miles wanted to get a six-pack of root beer, but travis
wanted only water. they bought the root-beer - travis accepting a free small glass of water from the clerk -
and each got a hamburger from the diner area. miles and travis drank a root-beer each. dan drank two, leaving
them with two extra cans tied together with the six plastic rings. when the three walked out through the glass
doors of the braum s, they saw the sun bleeding into the horizon beyond a sea of suburban houses. twilight
lavender shaded the sky above. the day was almost over and they hadn t even left the city of perry.
north county was probably fifteen miles away, and they d been stalling for most of the trip. "guys, we re
way behind," travis groaned. "it s going to be after eight before we get to your uncle s." "no problem.
long as i m in by ten we should be golden." dan said. "think i can land these root beers
on that power-line up there?" he nodded at the power-line suspended over an intersection that was currently deserted. "no," travis
laughed. miles shook his head, smiling. "how much will you two bet?" dan asked. "nothing," miles said. travis stared at
the line for what felt like a long time. "five bucks," "five bucks?" dan eyed him. travis nodded. dan looked
left and right to make sure no one was looking. "dude," miles held up a hand. "don t do it.
someone ll see." dan ignored him and drew back the cans. he carefully arced his arm and released the brown
root-beer cans into the air. they slowly soared upward, the first can hooping over the line where it caught and
stayed without disturbing the wire at all. travis s jaw dropped as dan whooped, punching the air in front of
him. dan had done it. he had gotten two root beer cans onto a power-line twenty~five feet high in one
shot without damaging the cans or the line, and he called the bet beforehand, too. "what-ever," travis called. "can we
quit iacking around guys." miles crossed his arms. "somebody owes me five bucks." dan turned to travis. "when we get
done with the trip." "you owe me." dan shrugged and unlocked the bikes. the three continued through the city, passing
restaurants, more bars and more restaurants. they passed a university where dan picked up a flyer for the quasar lite
that someone had taped to the inside of a shaded bus stop. he stuffed it in travis s backpack for
safekeeping. the three moved on. one block further, they ran into trouble again. at the top of the hill was
a small playground in front of massive road Construction. cones, fluorescent cans, and markers signaled road work ahead. dozens of
trucks were parked along the curb. behind the cars were several bulldozers and a large crane. signs reading road closed
blocked the pathway forward, and it didn t look like it was just this road either. it went past the
buildings on their right and left like a river flowing through the city. the crossroad had been torn to shambles
as well as the sidewalk. they simply could not continue on this path. "what should we do?" miles asked. "i
don t know. i don t have the map anymore. i guess we could buy one," travis suggested. "no way.
maps are like ten bucks in this town," said dan. "besides, we re about to be in north county, once
we get past all this construction." "how do you figure we re gonna do that?" miles pointed at the detour
sign directing the course away from the blocked street beyond it. "i saw that earlier," dan stroked his chin in
consideration, "but my problem is, when my mom goes up to north county to see her sister, she only takes
this road. the only time we went a different direction, it took us like forty-five minutes out of the way.
the only ohure road that crosses the river takes you through back country." travis blinked. "so, you think we should
try to get through the construction even though we re not supposed to?" "i didn t say that, i just
don t know any ohure way." the three of them sat at the bench beside the playground. a family was
at the slide. the older two of the three children were at the merry-go-round, the three of them watched the
kids push one anohure as fast as they could. travis, miles, and dan frowned and screwed up their eyes as
they tried to figure out what to do next. "man, this trip is a disaster. one disaster after anohure," miles
shook his head. "we just have to get past the construction. there s got to be a way." travis
