aye, it is a goodly and a proper life. and here i drink to mine old comrades, and the saints be with them! arouse all together, me, enfants,
under pain of my displeasure. to sir claude latour and the white company!" "sir claude latour and the white company!" shouted the travellers, draining off their goblets. "well
quafffd, H3I5 lift!"/6"5-" it is for me to fill your cups again, since you have drained them to my dear lads of the white ierkin. hola! mon ange,
bring wine and ale. how runs the old stave?" we ll drink all together to the gray goose feather and the land where the gray goose flew." he
roared out the catch in a harsh, unmusical voice, and ended with a shout of laughter, "i trust that i am a better bowman than a minstrel," said
he. "methinks i have some remembrance of the lilt," remarked the gleeman, running his fingers over the strings, "hoping that it will give thee no offence, most holy
sir"--with a vicious snap at alleyne--"and with the kind permit of the company, i will even venture upon it." many a time in the after days alleyne edricson
seemed to see that scene, for all that so many which were stranger and more stirring were soon to crowd upon him. the fat, red-faced gleeman, the listening
group, the archer with upraised finger beating in time to the music, and the huge sprawling figure of hordle iohn, all thrown into red light and black shadow
by the flickering fire in the centre--memory was to come often lovingly back to it. at the time he was lost in admiration at the deft Way in
which the iongleur disguised the loss of his two missing strings, and the lusty, hearty fashion in which he trolled out his little ballad of the outland bowmen,
which ran in some such fashion as this: what of the bow? the bow was made in england: of true wood, of yew wood, the wood of english
bows; so men who are free love the old yew tree and the land where the yew tree grows. what of the cord? the cord was made in
england: a rough Cord, a tough cord, a cord that bowmen love; so we ll drain our /"acks to the english flax and the land where the hemp
was wove. what of the shaft? the shaft was cut in england: a long shaft, a strong shaft, barbed and trim and true; so we ll drink all
together to the gray goose feather and the land where the gray goose flew. what of the men? the men were bred in england: the bowman--the yeoman» the
lads of dale and fell here s to you--and to you; to the hearts that are true and the land where the true hearts dwell. "well sung, by
my hilt!" shouted the archer in high delight. "many a night have i heard that song, both in the old war-time and after in the days of the
white company, when black simon of norwich would lead the stave, and four hundred of the best bowmen that ever drew string would come roaring in upon the
chorus. i have seen old iohn hawkwood, the same who has led half the company into italy, stand laughing in his beard as he heard it, until his
plates rattled again. but to get the full smack of it ye must yourselves be english bowmen, and be far off upon an outland soil." whilst the song
had been singing dame eliza and the maid had placed a board across two trestles, and had laid upon it the knife the spoon, the salt, the tranchoir
of bread, and finally the smoking dish which held the savory supper, the archer settled himself to it like one who had known what it was to find
good food scarce; but his tongue still went as merrily as his teeth. "it passes me," he cried, "how all you lusty fellows can bide scratching your backs
at home when there are such doings over the seas. look at me--what have i to do? it is but the eye to the cord, the cord to
the shaft, and the shaft to the mark. there is the whole song of it. it is but what you do yourselves for pleasure upon a sunday evening
at the parish village butts." "and the wage?" asked a laborer. "you see what the wage brings," he answered. "i eat of the best, and i drink deep.
i treat my friend, and i ask no friend to treat me. i clap a silk gown on my girl s back, never a knight s lady shall
be better betrimmed and betrinketed. how of all that, mon garcon? and how of the heap of trifles that you can see for yourselves in yonder corner? they
are from the south french, every one, upon whom i have been making war. by my hilt! camarades, i think that i may let my plunder speak for
itself." "it seems indeed to be a goodly service," said the tooth-drawer. "tete bleu! yes, indeed. then there is the chance of a ransom. why, look you,
