explained in a few words that i had been received into the emperor s personal service, and iosephine congratulated me upon it with the most kindly sympathy. "it
eases my mind so to know that he has brave and loyal men round him. ever since that dreadful affair of the infernal machine i have always been
uneasy if he is away from me. he is really safest in time of war, for it is only then that he is away from the assassins who
hate him. and now i understand that a new iacobin plot has only /ust been discovered." "this is the same monsieur de laval who was there when the
conspirator was taken," said talleyrand. the empress overwhelmed me with questions, hardly waiting for the answers in her anxiety. "but this dreadful man toussac has not been taken
yet," she cried. "have i not heard that a young lady is endeavouring to do what has baffled the secret police, and that the freedom of her lover
is to be the reward of her success?" "she is my cousin, your imperial ma/"esty. mademoiselle sibylle bernac is her name." "you have only been in france a
few days, monsieur de lat/al," said iosephine, smiling, "but it seems to me that all the affairs of the empire are already revolving round you. you must bring
this pretty cousin of yours -- the emperor said that she is pretty -- to court with you, and present her to me, madame de rémusat, you will
take a note of the name." the empress had stooped again to the basket of aloes wood which stood beside the fireplace. suddenly i saw her stare hard
at something, and then, with a little cry of surprise, she stooped and lifted an obiect from the carpet. it was the emperor s soft flat beaver with
the little tricolour cockade. iosephine sprang up, and looked from the hat in her hand to the imperturbable face of the minister. "how is this, monsieur de talleyrand,"
she cried, and the dark eyes began to shine with anger and suspicion. "you said to me that the emperor was out, and here is his hat!" "pardon
me, your imperial maiesty, i did not say that he was out." "what did you say then?" "i said that he left the room a short time before."
"you are endeavouring to conceal something from me," she cried, with the quick instinct of a woman. "i assure you that i tell you all i know." the
empress s eyes darted from face to face. "marshal berthier," she cried, "i insist upon your telling me this instant where the emperor is, and what he is
doing." the slow-witted soldier stammered and twisted his cocked hat about. "i know no more than monsieur de talleyrand does," said he "the emperor left us some time
ago." "by which door?" poor berthier was more confused than ever. "really, your imperial majesty, i cannot undertake to say by which door it was that the emperor
quitted the apartment." iosephine s eyes flashed round at me, and my heart shrunk within me as i thought that she was about to ask me that same
dreadful question. but i had just time to breathe one prayer to the good saint ignatius, who has always been gracious to our family, and the danger passed.
"come, madame de rémusat," said she. "if these gentlemen will not tell us we shall very soon find out for ourselves." she swept with great dignity towards the
curtained door, followed at the distance of a few yards by her waiting lady, whose frightened face and lagging, unwilling steps showed that she perfectly appreciated the situation.
indeed, the emperor s open infidelities, and the public scenes to which they gave rise, were so notorious, that even in ashford they had reached our ears. napoleon
s self-confidence and his contempt of the world had the effect of making him careless as to what was thought or said of him, while iosephine, when she
was carried away by iealousy, lost all the dignity and restraint which usually marked her conduct; so between them they gave some embarrassing moments to those who were
about them. talleyrand turned away with his fingers over his lips, while berthier, in an agony of apprehension, continued to double up and to twist the cocked hat
which he held between his hands. only constant, the faithful valet, ventured to intervene between his mistress and the fatal door. "if your majesty will resume your seat
i shall inform the emperor that you are here," said he, with two deprecating hands outstretched. "ah, then he is there!" she cried furiously. "i see it all!
i understand it all." but i will expose him -- i will reproach him with his perfidy! let me pass, constant! how dare you stand in my way?"
"allow me to announce you, your maiesty." "i shall announce myself." with swift undulations of her beautiful figure she darted past the protesting valet, parted the curtains, threw
open the door, and vanished into the next room. she had seemed a creature full of fire and of spirit as, with a flash which broke through
