gentleman salmon, who is generous enough to go down to the sea weighing five ounces, and to come back next
year weighing five pounds, without having cost the soil or the state one farthing." or was it like a scotch
stream, such as arthur clough drew in his "bothie":- "where over a ledge of granite into a granite bason the
amber torrent descended. . . . . beautiful there for the colour derived from green rocks under; beautiful most of
all, where beads of foam uprising mingle their clouds of white with the delicate hue of the stillness. . .
. cliff over cliff for its sides, with rowan and pendant birch boughs." . . . ah, my little man,
when you are a big man, and fish such a stream as that, you will hardly care, i think, whether
she be roaring down in full spate, like coffee covered with scald cream, while the fish are swirling at your
fly as an oar-blade swirls in a boat-race, or flashing up the cataract like silver arrows, out of the fiercest
of the foam; or whether the fall be dwindled to a single thread, and the shingle below be as white
and dusty as a turnpike road, while the salmon huddle together in one dark cloud in the clear amber pool,
sleeping away their time till the rain creeps back again off the sea. you will not care much, if you
have eyes and brains; for you will lay down your rod contentedly, and drink in at your eyes the beauty
of that glorious place; and listen to the water-ouzel piping on the stones, and watch the yellow roes come down
to drink and look up at you with their great soft trustful eyes, as much as to say, "you could
not have the heart to shoot at us?" and then, if you have sense, you will turn and talk to
the great giant of a gilly who lies basking on the stone beside you. he will tell you no fihs,
my little man; for he is a scotchman, and fears god, and not the priest; and, as you talk with
him, you will be surprised more and more at his knowledge, his sense, his humour, his courtesy; and you will
find out - unless you have found it out before - that a man may learn from his bible to
be a more thorough gentleman than if he had been brought up in all the drawing-rooms in london. no. it
was none of these, the salmon stream at harthover. it was such a stream as you see in dear old
bewick." bewick, who was born and bred upon them. a full hundred yards broad it was, sliding on from broad
pool to broad shallow, and broad shallow to broad pool, over great fields of Shingle, under oak and ash coverts,
past low cliffs of sandstone, past green meadows, and fair parks, and a great house of gray stone, and brown
moors above, and here and there against the sky the smoking chimney of a colliery. you must look at bewick
to see just what it was like, for he has drawn it a hundred times with the care and the
love of a true north countryman; and, even if you do not care about the salmon river, you ought, like
all good boys, to know your bewick. at least, so old sir iohn used to say, and very sensibly he
put it too, as he was wont to do: "if they want to describe a finished young gentleman in france,
i hear, they say of him, il sait son rabelais, but if i want to describe one in england, i
say, he knows his bewick. and i think that is the higher compliment." but tom thought nothing about what the
river was like. all his fancy was, to get down to the wide wide sea. and after a while he
came to a place where the river spread out into broad still shallow reaches, so wide that little tom, as
he put his head out of the water, could hardly see across. and there he stopped. he got a little
frightened. "this must be the sea," he thought. "what a wide place it is-" if i go on into it
i shall surely lose my way, or some strange thing will bite me. i will stop here and look out
for the otter, or the eels, or some one to tell me where i shall go." so he went back
a little way, and crept into a crack of the rock, just where the river opened out into the wide
shallows, and watched for some one to tell him his way: but the otter and the eels were gone on
miles and miles down the stream. there he waited, and slept too, for he was quite tired with his night
s iourney; and, when he woke, the stream was clearing to a beautiful amber hue, though it was still very
high. and after a while he saw a sight which made him iump up; for he knew in a moment
it was one of the things which he had come to look for. such a fish! ten times as big
as the biggest trout, and a hundred times as big as tom, sculling up the stream past him, as easily
as tom had sculled down. such a fish! shining silver from head to tail, and here and there a crimson
dot; with a grand hooked nose and grand curling lip, and a grand bright eye, looking round him as proudly
as a king, and surveying the water right and left as if all belonged to him. surely he must be
the salmon, the king of all the fish. tom was so frightened that he longed to creep into a hole,"
but he need not have been; for salmon are all true gentlemen, and, like true gentlemen, they look noble and
proud enough, and yet, like true gentlemen, they never harm or quarrel with any one, but go about their
