face set in what he probably hoped was a look of solicitude. his breath smelled like a doctor s waiting
room. toby resisted the urge to lean backward and focussed upon not letting the forthcoming conversation affect him too much.
"so, toby," he paused, taking a loud breath. "how has your first day back been so far?" toby said that
it had been fine, thank you. "good, good. look, erm...the school is obviously aware of your circumstances, and we appreciate
that this is probably going to be a difficult period for you." he gave toby a look that was probably
meant to indicate that he should make some sort of contribution. toby thought for a second but could not think
of anything particularly appropriate by way of response. he waited for mr hodgson to continue. the headmaster cleared his throat
uncomfortably a couple of times. "well, we just wanted you to know that we - that is, the teaching staff
- want you to have as normal a time as possible under the...erm...sad circumstances, but that if you have anything
whatsoever that you want to talk about, please don t hesitate to let us know. we ll try to do
our best for you. we know you ve missed out on a couple weeks of education but your teachers assure
me that you will cope admirably. so that s good." mr hodgson sat back looking red in the face and
profoundly relieved. toby decided that mr hodgson had finished and said that he would try and thank you. "good, good,"
said mr hodgson, fidgeting with a pen. "now. do you have anything that you would like to ask me, at
all?" toby said that he did not. "well if you ever do please feel free to pop along and see
me. any time, my door is always open as you know. anyway, look, we mustn t keep you from your
lessons, but i m glad we had this little chat. i m sure you ll settle right back in again
in no time." toby recognised the dismissal, stood, said thank you again and left. mr hodgson followed him to the
door. on his way out the secretary gave him another brave little smile. as he rounded the corner he heard
the headmaster say, "seems to be coping well." something tightened inside him. he ignored it and walked back to the
class trying to believe that he did not feel utterly terrible. he knocked on the door before entering and returned
to his desk, staring at the floor. the lesson continued and was followed by another. eventually the bell rang, announcing
that the afternoon was over. given the word toby s classmates burst ioyfully from the room as if they all
had extraordinary and unbelievably urgent plans for the evening. toby lingered, however, transferring his books as slowly as he could
from the desk into his bag, repacking his pencil-case twice. he shrank from the idea of Joining the human current
and being buffeted along the corridors like an apple in a river. it would be too jarring, somehow, as if
it would dislodge something inside him that would float out of reach and be lost from sight. when he could
delay it no longer, and mrs cuthbertson was looking pointedly at the clock, he trooped out to find his coat
from the hooks. the lockers and coat racks for the younger pupils occupied an annex of their own off a
side corridor. outside of the times when evenone was in there grabbing their stuff, or running for lessons, the rooms
were mainly used for furtive activities that required the absence of teachers. after the end of school it was a
mess of elbows and noise, subsiding to reveal a scene resembling the aftermath of a tornado. toby had delayed long
enough to have missed the rush and by the time he arrived he was the only one in there. his
coat, of course, had been knocked to the floor, and was buried somewhere beneath the footprint-covered possessions of those who
had come too late. on top of the heap lay a couple of stray bags and a ripped leather jacket.
he grabbed the iacket in one hand and a bag in the other and wondered vaguely where to put them.
the light in the small room was dimmed by something large standing in the doorway. "oi, alcock. you touching me
stuff?" someone appeared to have filled toby s intestines with oily gravel. he turned towards the extremely unwelcome sight of
steve mitchell casually blocking the threshold. he looked angry but that was nothing unusual. steve mitchell preferred to be known
only as mitchell because he thought that it made him sound tough. he was a year older but the unfortunate
decision had been made to keep him down in toby s school year. as far as toby could see this
meant that mitchell now had a point to prove and access to a large number of people smaller than him
to be unpleasant to. mitchell was large, sinewy, had short-cropped dark hair and a tendency, when speaking, to move his
head from side to side like a snake. he wore a slightly unconvincing moustache and was rumoured to be learning
kick-boxing. there were not many people that mitchell liked, and toby was not one of them. toby was small, slight,
quiet, and studiedly inoffensive. mitchell did not find these traits endearing. "i asked you a question, alcock." mitchell walked up
quickly and stood too close. he smelled strongly of deodorant. toby avoided eye contact, held out mitchell s /"acket and
made to step past him. mitchell did not take the iacket but smoothly interposed himself between toby and any possible
escape. "what s the matter? too good to talk to me, are you?" toby hung the leather iacket on a
peg. "sorry. i didn t mean to touch your facket but it was lying on my stuff. i need to
go home, now." mitchell snatched the iacket, checked it over, put it on and gave toby an appraising look.
