o all gods and all ye goddesses.’ and see the iustice of zeys. for these cringing immortals {from what part

of the heavens they come, i know not}, having taken shapes similar to ours on some false pretences, audacious ones,

have not been content with the worship of their romans, but, bursting with arrogance, they have presumed to claim also

the worship of the rolling-eyed argives. long, indeed, have i been patient with them, with fair words and deeds: but

they have ventured to bring war to lofty olympos. witless that they are, to be wrath in their folly against

zeys, who (sitting all by himself) careth not, nor taketh any thought about them: for i deem that i, among

immortal gods, am manifestly pre-eminent in power and might etcetera. wherefore, let them content themselves with whatsoever sorrows i shall
send on each one of them.’ but fierce impetuous ares stood high in his war-chariot, whereto were yoked his horses

fear and dread; and he slapped his strong thighs with his hands flatwise, saying: 'o lord of the lightning and

the dark cloud, smite them with the thunderbolts; and let them lie among the dead in dust and blood.' but,

when they heard this awful word, the latin gods leaped up to touch the beard and the knees of zeys,

crying aloud in a panic-terror as they bobbed up and down, saying: ‘we supplicate thee by thy beard, and by

thy knees, and by thy parents, to take good store of gold and korinthic bronze (which is platinum and better

than gold) as a ransom, and to let us go in peace.’ but, unto them, the father and king of

gods and men, with grimmer gaze, responded, saying: ‘dogs, dogs, supplicate me not by beard or knees or parents: for

neither a tenfold nor a twentyfold ransom can make amends for rebellion. nevertheless, seeing that ye be immortal, even as

are also we others, white death may not come anigh you. but let us hear much-contriving odysseys, the peer of

zeys in counsel: for perchance he hath some apt unwinged sentence of judgment in his wily mind.’ then, indeed, i

stood up before all the blooming company of heaven, in my silver-shining chariot inlaid with crabs and moons in mother-of-pearl,
but love was my charioteer; and thus i sald: ‘immortality to immortals, and nothings to nothingness.' and all the gods

and goddesses (bestowers of good things) stood in their own war-chariots; and inextinguishable laughter arose among the blessed gods, when
they heard my wily words. but great zeys sald: ‘it pleaseth us,’ and, so, of our own free will, we

command that it shall be done.’ and, immediately, all the gods and goddesses of olympos leaped upon all the blameless

gods and goddesses of rome, zeys upon iuppiter, and hera upon iuno, helios hyperion upon sol, and selene upon luna,

phoibos apollon upon apollo, and artemis upon diana, ares upon mars, and iakkhos dionysos upon bacchus, eros upon cupid, and
aphrodite upon venus, hermes upon mercury, and pallas athene upon minerva, demeter upon ceres, and hephaistos upon vulcan, hades upon
pluto, and persephone upon proserpina, kastor and polydeykes upon castor and pollux, herakles upon hercules, and poseidon upon neptune, and
innumerable others upon others innumerable, pouncing upon them, like falcons biting the bloody brains of baser birds, buzzards, and such,
sucking out their immortality. and the forms of the latin gods, like flies in the webs of assiduous spiders, lifeless,

and very void, fell back, dropping from heaven to earth; and the speed of their falling ground them to powder,

so that they became as red dust, and a most awful portent for their romans on whom they fell. for,

by chance, at this same time, the romans were perturbed by a political crisis, connected with that gaius iulius caesar,

a king of men and a shepherd of the people. for, when they saw fierce fiery warriors fighting on the

clouds, in ranks and squadrons and right forms of war, which drizzled blood of heroes on the capitol, and, when

they heard the neighing of horses and the groans of ghosts of heroes, slain, shrieking, squealing, going to the land

of shades, then, indeed, blind madness entered into them; and they slew their precious caesar. thus, the heavens themselves blaze
forth the death of princes. but the immortal gods, more amply immortal than ever (if that were possible}, returned to

their dear motherland bearing the spoils of victory; and the divine ones inhabiting olympian palaces began to receive the worship
of the romans, as was due. in this manner, was there peace in the wide-rolling heavens. but king zeys lavished

rich rewards, dividing the roman territories among gods and heroes, giving temples to some and altars to others, to say

nothing of blank walls eligible for immortal effigies. but, because i was by no means anxious to have assigned to

me the worship of mortal men (for, having been myself a man more than once, i know something about the

value of men s worship; and i care as little for suitors who adulate as for enemies who feel bound

to propitiate), then, the father and king of gods and men deigned to give me a wish, confirming the same

with his nod, which is the surest pledge among the immortals. and i sald that i would treasure this wish

in my heart, so that i might use it on occasion: for i desired, at that moment, nothing more than

to live in peace and love with golden helen. and that, i did. living in peace and love, thus, we

entertained ourselves with hunting bears, dragons, and urchins, on the long slopes of lofty olympos, or with delicate banquets in
the halls of various gods. i, also, went frequently to and fro among mortal men, generally invisibly, amusing myself with

their affairs. also, i was wont to disport myself in my well-benched galley, a wonder to be seen, being drawn

by love over the grey-green sea at my will. for hermes my grandsire, and bravely steadfast herakles, and my

