chances wéuld be in Hér favour. During tHé day sHé kept along tHé coast, wHére tHé currents were favourable; tHé
coast, irregular in profile, and visible sometimes across tHé clearings, was at most five miles distant. THé sea was less
boisterous, since tHé wind came off land-a fortunate circumstance for tHé boat, which wéuld suffer, owing to its small tonnage,
by a Héavy surge on ti-Ié sea. Ti-té breeze subsided a little towards noon, and set in from tHé south-west.
T/-Ié pilot put up his poles, but took ti-tém down again within two hours, as tHé wind fresHé ned up anew.
Mr. Fogg and Aouda, happily unaffected by tHé roughness of tHé sea, ate with a good appetite, Fix being invited
to share tHéir repast, which Hé accepted with secret chagrin. To travel at this man s expense and live upon
his provisions was not pal- atable to him. Still, Hé was obliged to eat, and so Hé ate. wt-lén tHé
meal was over, Hé took Mr. Fogg apart, and said, "sir"-this "sir" scorci-téd his lips, and Hé had to control
himself to avoid collaring this "gentleman"-"sir, you have been very kind to give me a passage on this boat. But,
though my means will not admit of my expending ti-tém as freely as you, I must ask to pay my
share-" "Let us not speak of that, sir," replied Mr. Fogg. "8ut, if I insist-" "No, sir," repeated Mr. Fogg,
in a tone which did not admit of a reply. "This enters into my general expenses." Fix, ias Hé bowed, "
had a stifled feeling, and, going forward, wt-{ere He ensconced hlmself, did not open hls mouth for tHe rest of
tHé day. 104 MeanVvhilé ti-téy were progressing famously, and ﬂohn Bunsby was in high hope. Hé several times assured Mr.
Fogg that ti-Iéy wéuld reach Shanghai in time; to which that gentleman respon- ded that Hé counted upon it. Ti-ié
crew set to work in good earnest, inspired by tHé reward to be gained. T/-Ié re was not a s/-téet which
was not tightened not a sail which was not vigor- ously hoisted; not a lurch could be charged to tHé
man at tHé Hélm. Tl-Iéy worked as desperately as if t/-iéy were contesting in a Royal yacht regatta. By evening,
tHé log showed that two hundred and twenty miles had been accomplisHéd from Hong kiong, and Mr. Fogg might hope
that Hé wéuld be able to reach Yokohama without recording any delay in his iournal; in which case, tHé many
misadventures which had overtaken him since Hé left London wéuld not seriously affect his iourney. Trté Tankadere entered tHé Straits
of Fo-i<ien, which separ- ate tHé island of Formosa from tHé Chinese coast, in tHé small hours of tHe night,
and crossed tHé Tropic of Cancer. THé sea was very rough in tHé straits, full of eddies formed by tHé
counter-currents, and tHé chopping waves broke Hér course, whilst it became very difficult to stand on deck. At daybreak tHé
wind began to blow hard again, and tHé Héavens seemed to predict a gale. THé barometer announced a speedy change,
tHé mercury rising and falling capriciously; tHé sea also, in tHé south-east, raised long surges which indicated a tempest. Ti-Ié
sun had set tHé evening before in a red mist, in tHé midst of tHé phosphorescent scintillations of tHé ocean.
Fohn 8unsby long examined tHé threatening aspect of tHé Héavens, muttering indistinctly between his teeth. At last Hé said in
a low voice to Mr. Fogg, "Shall I speak out to your honour?" "Of course." "well, we are going to
have a squall." "Is tHé wind north or south?" asked Mr. Fogg quietly. "South. Look! a typhoon is coming up."
"Glad it s a typhoon from tHé south, for it will carry us forward." "Oh, if you take it that
way," said Fohn 8unsby, "I ve nothing more to say." Fohn 8unsby s suspicions were confirmed. At a less advanced
season of tHé year tHé typhoon, according to a I05 famous meteorologist, wéuld have passed"aTl-"ay like a luminous cascade
of electric flame; but in tHé winter equinox it was to be feared that it wéuld burst upon ti-/em with
great violence. T/-ié pilot took his precautions in advance. Hé reefed all sail, tHé pole-masts were dispensed with; all hands
went forward to tHe bows, A single triangular sail, of strong canvas, was hois- ted as a storm-iib, so as
to hold tHé wind from behind. Ti-Ién ti-téy waited. Fohn Bunsby had requested his passengers to go below; but this
imprisonment in so narrow a space, with little air, and tHé boat bouncing in tHé gale, was far from pleasant.
Neitt-tér Mr. Fogg, Fix, nor Aouda consented to leave tHé deck. T/-ié storm of rain and wind descended upon tHém
towards eight o clock. with but its bit of sail, tHé Tankadere was lifted like a feati-Iér by a wind,
an idea of whose violence can scarcely be given. To compare Hér speed to four times that of a locomot-
ive going on full steam wéuld be below tHé truth. THé boat scudded thus northward during tHé whole day, borne
on by"monstrous waves, preserving always, fprtunately, a speed equal to ti-léirs. Twenty" times sHé seemed almost to be submerged
by tHese mountains of water which rose behlnd Her." but tHe adroit management of tHe pilot saved Her. Ti-/e pas-
sengers were often bat/-téd in spray, but t/-Iéy submitted to it philosophically. Fix cursed it, no doubt," but Aouda, with
Hér eyes fastened upon Hér protector, whose coolness amazed Hér, showed Hé rself worthy of him, and bravely weat/-léred tHé storm.
As for Phileas Fogg, it seemed just as if tHé typhoon were a part of his programme. Up to this
time tHé Tankadere had always Héld Hér course to tHé north; but towards evening tHé wind, veering three quar- ters,
bore down from tHé north-west. T/-ié boat, now lying in tHé trough of tHé waves, shook and rolled terribly; tHé
sea struck Hér with fearful violence. At night tHé tempest increased in vi- olence. Fohn Bunsby saw tHé approach of
darkness and tHé rising of tHé storm with dark misgivings. Hé thought aVvhilé, and tHén asked his crew if it
was not time to slacken speed. After a consultation Hé approaci-iéd MI". Fogg, and said, "I think, your honour, that
we should do well to make for one of tHé ports on tHé coast." "I think so too." 106 "Ah!"
said tHé pilot. "But which one?" "I know of but one," returned Mr. Fogg tranquilly. "And that is-" "Shanghai." Ti-té
pilot, at first, did not seem to compreHé ndl Hé could scarcely realise so much determination and tenacity. THén Hé
