of a patch of lilies, floating on top of a lake. she couldn t imagine anyone living out there, floating
on a giant life raft in the middle of the ocean. "beautiful isn t it?" a rich gravelly voice sald.
iane turned around to see a dark-skinned man with graying hair standing behind her. he wore an elaborate blue navy
iacket festooned with medals and tassels on top of a simple pair of ieans and a black t-shirt. somehow he
looked familiar. "you are the captain i presume?" iane asked. he looked surprised. "oh no," he responded. then he looked
down at his jacket. "oh this thing? this just came with the ship when i bought it. i m bryce
kandari." he held out his hand. "at your service." "bryce kandari," she repeated, taking his hand. "you re the famous
video game developer." he shrugged. "so how did you end up with an aircraft carrier?" she asked. "run out of
ferraris to buy?" bryce chuckled. "actually, i like to think about this as doing my part. this is the u,s.s.
nimitz, commissioned back in 1II5. she was our first nuclear-powered aircraft carrier, but she wasn t built to last forever.
back in the 2020 s, the navy began decommissioning the nimitz, but then the medicare crisis of 2025 hit. with
the federal government facing bankruptcy, they couldn t afford the hundreds of millions of dollars it takes to safely decommission
and store a nuclear carrier. being the patriot that i am, i offered to take it off their hands, sans
armament of course, and even stimulated the economy by hiring lots of people to fix it up." "the ladies dig
it more than a dozen ferraris," he added, giving her a wink. "you must admit that this makes a pretty
cool yacht." "it does," she agreed. "but why does the ecc need it?" "it doesn t," he replied. "this has
nothing to do with the ecc. it s my home. some people retire, buy an r.v., and travel across the
country. my mobile home is a little bigger and allows me to fly guests in when needed." "wow, rich people
really are crazy," she sald. "no dear," he sald. "poor people are crazy. rich people are eccentric. i paid a
million dollars for a certificate that says so." he looked completely serious. her eye caught something on the horizon. "what
s that?" she asked, pointing to a white speck in the water. "that s one of the trawling ships," he
responded. "gyre island has four of them. they travel out to different sections of the patch every day, dragging special
collection gear, essentially large perforated buckets, along the sides. at the end of the day, they bring back all the
plastic pellets back to the island for recycling." "they do the recycling on the island?" she asked. it seemed crazy
to put a recycling plant way out here. "oh yes," he replied. "that s what all the solar arrays are
for. you need a whole lot of energy to re-melt all that plastic. of course you could do the recycling
on land, but they "ion t really pick up enough plastic to make it worth the long trip back and
forth to the mainland. instead, gyre island uses all the plastic it recycles. the floating island originally just housed a
small recycling plant. every year they add pontoons, making the island larger and larger. the residential accommodations are made from
recycled plastic as is all the furniture. there are now one hundred volunteers who live on this island. as they
pick up more and more garbage from the oceans, the island gets bigger and bigger," "that s fascinating, so the
ecc pro/"ect is a success then," ff?! sald. "no," sald bryce sharply. "it s not. every day, ships from every
country that borders the pacific leave port carrying tons of garbage. ignoring whatever laws the international community has created and
not enforced, they dump all of it into the ocean and get paid for it. our solution is to use
more ships, burning more fuel, to go around looking for that same trash that is now scattered throughout a vast
swath of ocean and pick it up again. We collect a tiny fraction of what is dumped every day and
expend far more energy trying to pick it up than they do to dump it." bryce turned to her. "so
no, this is not a success." iane looked confused. "then why are you here?" she asked, "i m here for
two reasons," he explained. "first of all, we re now in international waters. i need a base to operate independently,
and not just to avoid liquor taxes. that s why i acquired the nimitz, and that s why i ve
taken over the ecc to get gyre island." /ane nodded tentatively. "and second of all, i m here and by
extension, you re here because of the one hundred people that live on gyre island. more than anywhere else in
the world, gyre island is an example of a small, closed ecosystem. thousands of miles from the closest city, they
ve created a self-sustaining environment. all their energy comes from the sun. they then use this energy to desalinate water.
that Water is used to grow plants which provide food for the inhabitants. and as mentioned, raw materials come from
the trash floating all around them." "interesting," iane sald, "but that still doesn t explain why a reclusive and wealthy
video game developer has obtained my research as ransom to get me to come to his floating vacation home." "hold
on there," bryce obiected. "contrary to what you may believe, video games are not the enemy of this earth. i
have just as much reason to save our planet and significantly more vision and resources to do so than anyone
else. this is not a vacation home. the lessons we can learn from the gyre island ecosystem will play a
critical role in my most crucial endeavor to date. pro/"ect phoenix is the single most important proiect in the
