some unknown visitor, the reader walked with a slow sure step, avoiding attention, carefully navigating the most unobtrusive path. at
this moment, that was no longer the case. he now stepped fervently, caring little for crowds or gawking onlookers. mappel
could only surmise that the reader held great expectations for the new arrival announced by the woman follower of godson.
"is he inside?" the reader asked rachael with near booming exuberance as the group reached the steps of the church.
"yes, he s in your chambers." matthew turned and ran up the stone stairs, his feet passing beyond every other
step. he grabbed the door and yanked it open. it swung to its full length before it thudded against the
stone door stop. it vibrated for but a moment, until its own great weight brought it to a motionless halt.
matthew was through the door in but a heartbeat. before another such beat, he had already vanished beyond the line
of sight of those that followed. rachael also moved quickly up the stairs. she grabbed the door handle, but waited
patiently for the two strangers to follow her inside before she swung it closed. once all were inside, she set
off down a small corridor and disappeared through a door in a far back corner of the church. mappel and
lief looked about curiously. the main room of worship now contained several more anxious people. they totaled barely more than
a dozen, but their whispers buzzed with excitement and sent an echoing hum through the rafters. in comparison to the
space available to them within this building which was more like a fortress than a church, their number appeared meager
at best. they could no more fill the many benches which lined the open space than mappel s camp of
elves could fill the branches of all the trees in dark spruce forest, yet, from what the elder elf remembered
of matthew s words, this must represent a great ma/"ority of the church s followers. those within barely heeded the
arrival of the elves. in fact if either lief or mappel had removed their caps, it was doubtful that any
would have noticed. instead, they chattered nervously, excitedly among themselves. they looked pensively toward the hallway which led to matthew
s personal chamber. "what should we do?" lief asked softly while keeping a watchful eye on the people that continued
to ignore them. "let us move to a seat in the back where we will remain inconspicuous to these people.
i assume the reader will summon us when the time is proper." the church members paid them no mind. their
attention remained centered upon the passage to matthew s chamber. both elves took satisfaction in the small respite, and neither
felt at all uneasy with the present number of humans, a humble and unassuming lot. lief took the opportunity to
look about the large open space which represented the heart of the church. for the most part, it remained simple.
it was void of any relics or symbols which might connect it to the faith of godson. the walls, made
of powerful stone, rose up to the thick wooden rafters of the roof. the benches stood aligned with a walkway
down the center, leading away from the front door. at the path s end, a simple platform stood innocuously and
just high enough to allow a clear view of a speaker. lief s further inspection was cut short by the
sudden appearance of the reader. he broke from the passageway into the vast open space alone. he took but a
few steps toward the center before stopping to address the other followers who immediately ceased their chatter. "friends, it is
not my intention to keep things from you. i would have you all involved with what must be considered, if
i could. unfortunately, i am not even sure if it is my place to be included in what must be
discussed here today. please bear with me for but a few moments." the reader turned, but not back to his
chamber. after scanning the room, his eyes fell upon the two seated in the back. he moved to them almost
as quickly as he raced up the steps of the church. he leaned over mappel and whispered so as no
one else could hear. as the other church members watched silently, mappel nodded and made but a passing remark to
his companion. lief rose and headed to a side door which rachael had previously used. in but a moment, he
was behind a closed door. it was time for him to send word to the elf sentries of dark spruce.
upon lief s exit, mappel turned his head back to the reader. they exchanged messages inaudible to the others. he
then stood and followed matthew to the center of the room, to within the very midst of the other followers.
they gathered around the elf and the reader curiously, expectantly. it was mappel who spoke. he stood still, his hands
gently clasping his staff. only his head turned about to meet the questioning gazes of those that now surrounded him.
"do not blame the reader for keeping you in the dark over what has been happening here. it was never
his intention to hide anything from you. if you must blame someone of that, blame me. i will tell you
now, what only a select others might know. you will understand, for your following allows you an appreciation for the
land as it was." he tried not to pause, but he could not help stopping to inhale deeply before speaking
his next sentence. "the sphere of ingar has broken free from its entombment, and the magic has returned to the
land." mumblings erupted, but soon all quieted to hear further explanation. mappel held them calm with his reassuring voice and
patient eyes. "i know you will find this difficult to accept, i have been told such a thing has not
been prophesied for you. i can only say that such an event was also not included in elflore. i
