rose into a shriek as he ended, for a shovel-headed spear had been buried in his chest. a second wave of dervishes lapped over the hillocks, and burst
upon the machine-gun and the right front of the line. the sailors were overborne in an instant, but the mallows, with their fighting blood aflame, met the yell
of the moslem with an even wilder, fiercer cry, and dropped two hundred of them with a single point-blank volley. the howling, leaping crew swerved away to the
right, and dashed on into the gap which had already been made for them. but c company had drawn no trigger to stop that fiery rush. the men
leaned moodily upon their martinis. some had even thrown them upon the ground. conolly was talking fiercely to those about him. captain foley, thrusting his way through the
press, rushed up to him with a revolver in his hand. "this is your doing, you villain!" he cried. "if you raise your pistol, captin, your brains will
be over your coat," said a low voice at his side. he saw that several rifles were turned on him. the two subs. had pressed forward, and were
by his side. "what is it, then?" he cried, looking round from one fierce mutinous face to another. "are you irishmen? are you soldiers? what are you here
for but to fight for your country?" "england is no country of ours," cried several. "you are not fighting for england. you are fighting for ireland, and for
the empire of which it as part." "a black curse on the impire!" shouted private mcquire, throwing down his rifle. " twas the impire that backed the man
that druv me onto the roadside. may me hand stiffen before i draw trigger for it. "what s the impire to us, captain foley, and what s the
widdy to us ayther?" cried a voice. "let the constabulary foight for her." "ay, be god, they d be better imployed than pullin a poor man s thatch
about his ears." "or shootin his brother, as they did mine." "it was the impire laid my groanin mother by the wayside. her son will rot before he
upholds it, and ye can put that in the charge-sheet in the next coort-martial." in vain the three officers begged, menaced, persuaded. the square was still moving, ever
moving, with the same bloody fight raging in its entrails. even while they had been speaking they had been shuffling backwards, and the useless gardner, with her slaughtered
crew, was already a good hundred yards from them. and the pace was accelerating. the mass of men, tormented and writhing, was trying, by a common instinct, to
reach some clearer ground where they could re-form. three faces were still intact, but the fourth had been caved in, and badly mauled, without its comrades being able
to help it. the guards had met a fresh rush of the hadendowas, and had blown back the tribesmen with a volley, and the cavalry had ridden over
another stream of them, as they welled out of the gully. a litter of hamstrung horses, and haggled men behind them, showed that a spearman on his face
among the bushes can show some sport to the man who charges him. but, in spite of all, the square was still reeling swiftly backwards, trying to shake
itself clear of this torment which clung to its heart. would it break or would it re-form? the lives of five regiments and the honour of the flag
hung upon the answer. some, at least, were breaking. the c company of the mallows had lost all military order, and was pushing back in spite of the
haggard officers, who cursed, and shoved, and prayed in the vain attempt to hold them. the captain and the subs. were elbowed and iostled, while the men crowded
towards private conolly for their orders. the confusion had not spread, for the other companies, in the dust and smoke and turmoil, had lost touch with their mutinous
comrades. captain foley saw that even now there might be time to avert a disaster. "think what you are doing, man," he yelled, rushing towards the ringleader. "there
are a thousand irish in the square, and they are dead men if we break." the words alone might have had little effect on the old moonlighter. it
is possible that, in his scheming brain, he had already planned how he was to club his irish together and lead them to the sea. but at that
moment the arabs broke through the screen of camels which had fended them off. there was a struggle, a screaming, a mule rolled over, a wounded man sprang
up in a cacolet with a spear through him, and then through the narrow gap surged a stream of naked savages, mad with battle, drunk with slaughter, spotted
and splashed with blood -- blood dripping from their spears, their arms, their faces. their yells, their bounds, their crouching, darting figures, the horrid energy of their spear-thrusts,
made them look like a blast of fiends from the pit. and were these the allies of ireland." were these the men who were to strike for
