are indications of a strumous diathesis. in broad terms, i may say that you have a constitutional and hereditary taint." the young baronet sank back in his chair,
and his chin fell forwards upon his chest. the doctor sprang to a side-table and poured out half a glass of liqueur brandy which he held to his
patient s lips. a little fleck of colour came into his cheeks as he drank it down, "perhaps i spoke a little abruptly," said the doctor, "but you
must have known the nature of your complaint. why, otherwise, should you have come to me?" "god help me, i suspected it; but only today when my leg
grew bad. my father had a leg like this." "it was from him, then----?" "no, from my grandfather, you have heard of sir rupert norton, the great corinthian?"
the doctor was a man of wide reading with a retentive, memory. the name brought back instantly to him the remembrance of the sinister reputation of its owner--a
notorious buck of the thirties--who had gambled and duelled and steeped himself in drink and debauchery, until even the vile set with whom he consorted had shrunk away
from him in horror, and left him to a sinister old age with the barmaid wife whom he had married in some drunken frolic, as he looked at
the young man still leaning back in the leather chair, there seemed for the instant to flicker up behind him some vague presentiment of that foul old dandy
with his dangling seals, many-wreathed scarf, and dark Satyric face. what was he now." an armful of bones in a mouldy box. but his deeds-- they were living
and rotting the blood in the veins of an innocent man. "i see that you have heard of him," said the young baronet. "he died horribly, i have
been told; but not more horribly than he had lived. my father was his only son. he was a studious man, fond of books and canaries and the
country; but his innocent life did not save him." "his symptoms were cutaneous, i understand." "he wore gloves in the house. that was the first thing i can
remember. and then it was his throat. and then his legs. he used to ask me so often about my own health, and i thought him so fussy,
for how could i tell what the meaning of it was. he was always watching me--always with a sidelong eye fixed upon me. now, at last, i know
what he was watching for." "had you brothers or sisters?" "none, thank god," "well, well, it is a sad case, and very typical of many which come in
my way. you are no lonely sufferer, sir francis, there are many thousands who bear the same cross as you do," "but where is the /"ustice of it,
doctor?" cried the young man, springing from his chair and pacing up and down the consulting-room, "if i were heir to my grandfather s sins as well as
to their results, i could understand it, but i am of my father s type. i love all that is gentle and beautiful--music and poetry and art. the
coarse and animal is abhorrent to me. ask any of my friends and they would tell you that. and now that this vile, loathsome thing--ach, i am polluted
to the marrow, soaked in abomination! and why? haven t i a right to ask why? did i do it? was it my fault? could i help being
born? and look at me now, blighted and blasted, just as life was at its sweetest. talk about the sins of the father--how about the sins of the
creator?" he shook his two clinched hands in the air--the poor impotent atom with his pin-point of brain caught in the whirl of the infinite, the doctor rose
and placing his hands upon his shoulders he pressed him back into his chair once more, "there, there, my dear lad," said he; "you must not excite yourself,
you are trembling all over. your nerves cannot stand it. we must take these great questions upon trust. what are we, after all? half-evolved creatures in a transition
stage, nearer perhaps to the medusa on the one side than to perfected humanity on the other. with half a complete brain we can t expect to understand
the whole of a complete fact, can we, now? it is all very dim and dark, no doubt; but i think that pope s famous couplet sums up
the whole matter, and from my heart, after fifty years of varied experience, i can say----" but the young baronet gave a cry of impatience and disgust. "words,
words, words! you can sit comfortably there in your chair and say them--and think them too, no doubt, you ve had your life, but i ve never had
mine. you ve healthy blood in your veins; mine is putrid. and yet i am as innocent as you. what would words do for you if you were
in this chair and i in that? ah, it s such a mockery and a make-believe! don t think me rude, though, doctor, i don t mean
