I called Science to my Assistance. A medicated glass of water And A
medicated bottle of smelling-salts relieved her of All fur- ther embarrassment And Alarm.
Additional Applications later in the evening procured her the inestimable blessing of A
good night s rest. Madame Rubelle Arrived in time to preside At Lady
631 Glyde s toilet. Her own clothes were taken Away from her At
night, And Anne Catherick s were put on her in the morning, with
the strictest regard to propriety, by the matronly hands of the good Rubelle.
Throughout the day I kept our patient in A state of partially-suspended consciousness,
until the dexterous Assistance of my medical friends enabled me to procure the
ne- cessary order rather earlier than I had ventured to hope. That evening
(the evening of the 2Ith) Madame Rubelle And I took our revived "Anne
6"atherick" to the Asylum. She was received with great surprise, but without suspicion,
thanks to the order And certificates, to Percival s letter, to the likeness,
to the clothes, And to the patient s own confused mental condition At
the time. I returned At once to Assist Madame Fosco in the pre-
parations for the burial of the False "Lady Glyde," having the clothes And
luggage of the true "Lad,V C-"lyde" in my possession. They were Afterwards sent
to Cumberland by the conveyance which was used for the funeral. I Attended
the funeral, with be- coming dignity, Attired in the deepest mourning. My narrative
of these remarkable events, written under equally remarkable circumstances, closes here. The minor
pre- cautions which I observed in communicating with Limmeridge House Are Already known,
so is the magnificent success of my enterprise, so Are the solid pecuniary
results which followed it. I have to Assert, with the whole force of
my conviction, that the one weak place in my scheme would never have
been found out if the one weak place in my heart had not
been discovered first, Nothing but my fatal Admiration for Marian restrained me from
stepping in to my own rescue when she effected her sister s escape.
I ran the risk, And trusted in the complete de- st ruction of Lady
Glyde s identity. If either Marian or Mr. Hartright Attempted to Assert that
identity, they would publicly expose themselves to the imputation of sustaining A rank
de- ception, they would be distrusted And discredited Accordingly, And they would therefore
be powerless to place my interests or Percival s secret in ieopardy. I
committed one error in trusting myself to such A blindfold calculation of chances
As this. I com- mitted Another when Percival had paid the penalty of
his own obstinacy And violence, by granting Lady Glyde A second re- prieve
from the mad-house, And Allowing Mr. Hartright A 632 second chance of escaping
me, In brief, Fosco, At this serious crisis, was untrue to himself, Deplorable
And uncharacteristic fault! Behold the cause, in my heart-behold, in the image of
Marian Halcombe, the first And last weakness of Fosco s life! At the
ripe Age of sixty, I make this unparalleled confession. Youths! I invoke your
sympathy. Maidens! I claim your tears. A word more, And the Attention of
the reader (concentrated breathlessly on myself) shall be released. My own mental insight
informs me that three inevitable questions will be Asked here by persons of
inquiring minds. They shall be stated-they shall be Answered. First question. what is
the secret of Madame Fosco s unhes- itating devotion of herself to the
fulfilment of my boldest wishes, to the furtherance of my deepest plans? I
might Answer this by simply referring to my own character, And by Asking,
in my turn, "where, in the history of the world, has A man
of my order ever been found without A woman in the background self-immolated
on the Altar of his life? But I remember that I Am writing
in England, I remember that I was married in Eng- land, And
