we passed the plateau and were again venturing upwards until by dusk we neared the foot of mount eleos itself.
there we camped for the night. the weather by now had become considerably cooler than anything we had ever experienced
in paradise. however, we were well prepared. amongst our supplies, we had clothing made from special material found only in
paradise, material that was relatively light, yet exceptionally effective against the cold. that, plus the fact that our bodies were
now much more resistant against the cold, meant that we could easily cope with any adverse weather conditions we met.
also, our tents were comfortable and warm, being likewise constructed from material far superior to anything we had known in
the old world, that night we all sat around a campfire where george and my father were cooking some fish
fruits on a skewer. after dinner, we lingered around the fire, talking, laughing, and later even singing, until finally, one
by one, everybody went into the tents, and into their respective sleeping bags. finally, i was the last one left.
by then the campfire was dying, and thus i instinctively huddled next to the glowing embers. fat" off in the
distance, i heard a lone cry of a wolf. an eerie feeling swept over me as i realized that the
day of reckoning would soon be upon me, the day i was to meet up with the person who had
murdered me, i instinctively turned to prayer, and once more i was calm. a final look into the glowing embers
and off i went into one of the tents. there i snuggled into a sleeping bag next to my parents.
the wolf howled once more but i felt as comfortable and secure as if wrapped in cotton wool. i gave
a final yawn and fell soundly asleep. at dawn the next day, we continued our trek, now going upwards on
the slopes of eleos, the weather getting ever colder by the hour, although so far this caused us little concern.
by early afternoon, the first snowflakes fell, /"ust as it had when i had made my feeble attempt up the
11,000 foot peak of mount hood, in the cascade range. then it had stopped me, and i had eagerly returned
to base. however, now i had all the agility and endurance of a mountain goat. as the day progressed into
the late afternoon, we had passed the tree line and the mountain suddenly appeared desolate and forsaken. snowflakes were now
coming down in thick, heavy clumps, covering the surrounding scenery completely in a blanket of white. every step we made
came with a great sloshing sound as we sunk shin deep into the snow. however, dad and george loved every
moment of it." the rugged wilderness, the tagged surrounding peaks, and the mesmerizing white all around. carlos, on the other
hand, looked far less enthusiastic, his normal bright countenance now replaced with one of stoical resignation. george s wife, flo,
likewise faced the task with similar determination. so did i until later that day, when all sense of adventure had
deserted me. although still managing well under the physical strain, as we all were, i nonetheless began to hate this
trek up the mountain. the only thing that comforted me was the thought of reaching our miraculous cave home that
george had seen in his vision. however, my poor mother found it even harder. she really was close to breaking
point, and i think the only thing that kept her going were her incessant prayers, and my father s constant
helping hand. still, as with all iourneys, no matter how long or tedious, there comes the destination, and so we
reached ours just before sundown. we were now on relatively level ground, not too far from the summit. and the
view was truly awesome. on the one side was another mountain, almost as high and rugged as ours. the opposite
side, only a few yards away from where we stood, was a cliff with a sheer drop of at least
three hundred feet. as we stared over this grand, maiestic panorama, all my fears and complaints were now forgotten. my
spirit soared once more, and i was again filled with a sense of wonder over this incredible place, which i
definitely now knew was not the cascades my father and i had known. thus we lingered, soaking in the incredible
scenery until finally george directed us to our new home. from about a hundred feet away, he pointed straight towards
the upper face of the mountain, where there was an opening barely large enough for us to get through. "hey,
look!" george yelled. "that s exactly what i saw in my vision. that s our new home!" we all stared
at him, dumbfounded, little realizing just how incredible this cave will turn out to be. we entered the cave s
entrance and, for just a second or two, saw only a large, dark and empty cavern. then, before our very
eyes, the cave miraculously transformed itself into a fully furnished home, a home that was in every way identical to
our home in deer park. this totally unnerved my mother. "i...i ca...can t believe it.-" she stammered. dad too was
shocked, as we all seemingly were. however, my father quickly regained his composure, and even his sense of humor.
i thought we built houses quickly in deer park!" "but it looks exactly like our living room!" my mother almost
shrieked. "but this is exactly what i saw in the vision," george exclaimed, "right down to its last detail!" dad
placed his arm around mum s shoulder. "see, hon, it s all okay," he soothed. he forced a chuckle. "and
it s even warm in here." "but is it real, or is this only a vision we re all having?"
i asked. then, to satisfy my curiosity, i walked over to my mother s landscape. it certainly looked identical to
the one at home, i lifted it off its hook and then showed it to my mother. she hesitated
"and
