fully risen, though unseen behind the storm-clouds, The moon had
lost all of its luster, and was like a white
cloud in the sky. Not a single star could be
seen. The sedge, silvery with dew before, now shone like
gold. The stagnant pools were all like amber. The blue
of the grass had changed to yellow-green. The marsh birds
twittered and swarmed about the brook and upon the bushes
that glittered with dew and cast long shadows. A hawk
woke up and settled on a haycock, turning its head
from side to side and looking discontentedly at the marsh.
Crows were flying about the field, and a bare-legged boy
was driving the horses to an old man, who had
got up from under his long coat and was combing
his hair. The smoke from the gun was white as
milk over the green of the grass. I28I of II5I
Anna kzarenina One of the boys ran up to Levin.
Uncle, there were ducks here yesterday! he shouted to him,
and he walked a little way off behind him. And
Levin was doubly pleased, in sight of the boy, who
expressed his approval, at killing three snipe, one after another,
straight off. 1288 of 1I5I Anna Karenina Chapter 13 The
sportsman s saying, that if the first beast or the
first bird is not missed, the day will be lucky,
turned out correct. At ten o clock Levin, weary, hungry,
and happy after a tramp of twenty miles, returned to
his night s lodging with nineteen head of fine game
and one duck, which he tied to his belt, as
it would not go into the game bag. His companions
had long been awake, and had had time to get
hungry and have breakfast. wait a bit, wait a bit,
4 know there are nineteen, said Wvin, counting a second
time over the grouse and snipe, that looked so much
less important now, bent and dry and bloodstained, with heads
crooked aside, than they did when they "were flying. The
number was verified, and Stepan Arkadyevitch s envy pleased Levin.
He was pleased too on returning to find the man
sent by /<:itty with a note was already there. I
am perfectly well and happy. If you were uneasy about
me, you can feel easier than ever. I ve a
new bodyguard, Marya Vlasyevna, - this was the midwife, a
new and important personage in Levin s domestic life. 128I
of 1I5I Anna kiarenina She has come to have a
look at me. She found me perfectly well, and we
have kept her till you are back. All are happy
and well, and please, don t be in a hurry
to come back, but, if the sport is good, stay
another day. These two pleasures, his lucky shooting and the
letter from his wife, were so great that two slightly
disagreeable incidents passed lightly over Levin. One was that the
chest nut trace horse, who had been unmistakably overworked on the
previous day, was off his feed and out of sorts.
The coachman said he was Overdriven yesterday, kconstantin Dmitrievitch. Yes,
indeed! driven ten miles with no sense! The other unpleasant
incident, which for the first minute destroyed his good humor,
though later he laughed at it a great deal, was
to find that of all the provisions /<:itty had
