"she has a cottage at ambleteuse?" "but we must have no scandal about the court," said talleyrand, with a sour smile, recalling the moral sentiments with which the
emperor had reproved him. "and now, monsieur de laval," he added, drawing me aside, "i very much wish to hear from you about the bourbon party in england.
you must have heard their views. do they imagine that they have any chance of success?" and so for ten minutes he plied me with questions, which showed
me clearly that the emperor had read him aright, and that he was determined, come what might, to be upon the side which won. we were still talking
when constant entered hurriedly, with a look of anxiety and perplexity which i could not have imagined upon so smooth and imperturbable a face. "good heavens, monsieur talleyrand,"
he cried, clasping and unclasping his hands. "such a misfortune! who could have expected it?" "what is it, then, constant?" "oh, monsieur, i dare not intrude upon the
emperor. and yet  and yet  the empress is outside, and she is coming in," at this unexpected announcement talleyrand and berthier looked at each other in
silence, and for once the trained features of the great diplomatist, who lived behind a mask, betrayed the fact that he was still capable of emotion. the spasm
which passed over them was caused, however, rather by mischievous amusement than by consternation, while berthier -- who had an honest affection for both napoleon and iosephine --
ran frantically to the door as if to bar the empress from entering. constant rushed towards the curtains which screened the emperor s room, and then, losing courage,
although he was known to be a stout- hearted man, he came running back to talleyrand for advice. it was too late now, however, for roustem the mameluke
had opened the door, and two ladies had entered the room. the first was tall and graceful, with a smiling face, and an affable though dignified manner. she
was dressed in a black velvet cloak with white lace at the neck and sleeves, and she wore a black hat with a curling white feather. her companion
was shorter, with a countenance which would have been plain bad it not been for the alert expression and large dark eyes, which gave it charm and character.
a small black terrier dog had followed them in, but the first lady turned and handed the thin steel chain with which she led it to the mameluke
attendant. "you had better keep fortuné outside, roustem," said she, in a peculiarly sweet musical voice. "the emperor is not very fond of dogs, and if we intrude
upon his quarters we cannot do less than consult his tastes. good evening, monsieur de talleyrand! madame de rémusat and i have driven all along the cliffs, and
we have stopped as we passed to know if the emperor is coming to pont de briques -- but perhaps he has already started. i had expected to
find him here." "his imperial majesty was here a short time ago," said talleyrand, bowing and rubbing his hands. "i hold my salon -- such a salon as
pont de briques is capable of this evening, and the emperor promised me that he would set his work aside for once, and favour us with his presence,
i wish we could persuade him to work less, monsieur de talleyrand. he has a frame of iron, but he cannot continue in this way. these nervous attacks
come more frequently upon him. he will insist upon doing everything, everything himself. it is noble, but it is to be a martyr. i have no doubt that
at the present moment -- but you have not yet told me where he is, monsieur de talleyrand." "we expect him every instant, your ma/"esty." "in that case
we shall sit down and await his return. ah, monsieur de meneval, how i pity you when i see you among all those papers! i was desolate when
monsieur de bourrienne deserted the emperor, but you have more than taken his place. come up to the fire, madame de rémusat! yes, yes, i insist upon it,
for i know that you must be cold. constant, come and put the rug under madame de rémusat s feet." it was by little acts of thoughtfulness and
kindness like this that the empress so endeared herself that she had really no enemies in france, even among those who were most bitterly opposed to her husband,
whether as the consort of the first man in europe, or as the lonely divorced woman eating her heart out at malmaison, she was always praised and beloved
by those who knew her. of all the sacrifices which the emperor ever made to his ambition that of his wife was the one which cost him the
greatest struggle and the keenest regret. now as she sat before the fire in the same chair which had so recently been occupied by the emperor, i had
an Opportunity 01"" Studying this person, whose strange fate had raised her from being the daughter of a lieutenant of artillery to the first position among the
