i would have handled everything differently sent everything into what we call interference, and not approved dr. gallo s application."
"were there any other problems with dr. gallo s hiv blood test application?" mrs. ford rearranges her papers once again,
looking for yet another sheet. "yes. he stated, quote, we are the original, first and ioint inventors  of the
subiect matter which is claimed and for which a patent is sought, unquote, that simply wasn t true, i later
found out that dr. gallo had done extensive work with the french virus called lav and had, in fact, used
it to make the blood test he was trying to patent. he also used a lot of the work the
french themselves had done to develop their own blood test, which dr. gallo knew about and had access to. in
other words, very little, if anything, was dr. gallo s original work at all." "anything else?" mrs. ford hesitates a
moment. yes, there is, but... "i m not trained in medical research, but his application stated that he was growing
hiv, quote, in healthy t cells, unquote. when i stop to think about it, i don t understand. dr. gallo
s hiv antibody blood test is made from virus that is mass-produced in t cells that continue to grow, rather
than die. so, according to dr. gallo himself, the virus called hiv does not kill the very t cells it
must kill in order to cause aids. i, personally, probably couldn t have reiected an application based on that medical
inconsistency, but it still bothers me today." "so you approved his application despite all this?" "i didn t know any
of this at the time, or i wouldn t have." "and i believe the approval came in record time." "oh,
yes, that s the other thing. there was a lot of pressure to get it done, and so i got
it done in thirteen months. i think that s still a record at the office." mrs. ford seemed conflicted about
her answer. one part of her was pleased that messick would bring this up, and proud of her record. the
other part was still lamenting the role she played in the patent approvals and wishing she could have set that
record with some other application. "mrs. ford, there s a lot of money to be made from a successful patent,
isn t there?" "there can be, yes." "any idea what this particular patent was worth?" "the one for the hiv
blood test?" "yes." "several millions of dollars a year to the u.s. government, at least." "and the french who actually
developed it didn t get anything?" "no, not originally. but that changed with an agreement reached in 1.I8I." "so now
the french get..." "half. but that wasn t true in the beginning. the I.I8I presidential agreement split 1/3rd to the
french and 2/3/-ds to the u.s. then later a lot of other information came out in a congressional hearing and
dr. gallo had to finally admit he lied on the application. the u.s. had to eat crow and appease the
french again by giving them a bigger share of the royalties, so now they get half." "and did dr. gallo
get anything personally?" "yes. there was a law passed, i think it was in 1I80, which allows a government employee
to receive royalty payments for their discoveries up to $I00,000 a year on top of their salary, maybe that s
increased by now, i m not sure. i ve been retired and out of the loop for a few years."
"so dr. gallo got $100,000 a year for this one patent for the hiv blood test, for how long?" "i
think it s II years." she consults her notes again. "yes, 1I years." "so in 1.I84, dr. gallo himself stood
to make almost two million dollars if you approved his patent application for the hiv blood test." "yes." "do you
remember the movie, mrs. ford, called ierry mcguire, and that infamous line, show me the money! "? mrs. ford laughs.
"absolutely." "so, mrs. ford, do you think two million dollars is enough to make someone lie to get his patent
application approved?" "ob/"ection." the fudge has to side with me this time, crawley thinks. "sustained." "i have no further questions.
thank you, mrs. ford." sam s Voice on the intercom interrupts sarah s train of thought as she s typing
on her computer. she punches a button on the phone. "yes, sam?" "sarah, come into my office." "sam, i ve
got a deadline." "screw the deadline. i ll take care of that. you need to see this," sarah makes sure
she saved her work and then pushes back her chair and walks the length of the room to sam s
private office. when she enters, sam is glued to his little ten-inch tv screen. he motions to sarah to be
quiet and points to a chair he has already set up so she can watch, too. anchorwoman laura begley is
on camera, summarizing the aids trial and the events of the last week. sam explains what 5 happened so far.
"gnn s doing a special on the trial, and from what i hear, there s going to be stuff you
ll want to see." his voice gives way to laura s. "...which brings us up to the present, and it
was another day of unexpected testimony, to put it mildly. with us again is dr. frank keating, chief health correspondent
for gnn. dr. keating, i guess we shouldn t be surprised any more with what s coming out in this
trial." keating and laura are once again together in the same camera shot, but it is a different setting than
the usual news desk. both are standing, and in between them is a giant green screen where images will soon
appear. right now, it s just the gnn logo and the special graphics developed for the aids trial. "probably not,
laura. the past week has been one bombshell after another, all of which bode poorly for the defense. the
