he will be greeted with cannon. then i ll immediately have his horoscope cast-for the hindu troops-and schedule his naming
ceremony-for the believers." "what will you name him?" "his first name will be nushirvan, you can pick the others," "nushirvan
was a haughty persian king. and it s an ugly name." "it s the name i ve chosen." iadar smiled
wickedly, still mulling over what name he would eventually pick. mumtaz did not argue. she had already selected the name
salaman, the handsome young man persian legends said was once created by a wise magician. salaman was an ideal lover.
whatever name iadar chose, salaman would be his second name. and the one she would call him all the coming
years in the zenana, when he would creep into her bed after iadar had departed for his own quarters. and
we ll see what name he answers to seven years hence, on his circumcision day. the dai was busy spooning
a mixture of honey, ghee, and opium into the child s mouth. then a drop of milk was pressed from
mumtaz s breast and rubbed on the breast of the wet nurse. iadar watched the ritual with approval. now for
the most important tradition, the one begun by akman. "is the wrap ready?" akman had believed that the first clothes
a moghul prince wore should be fashioned from an old garment of a muslim holy man, and he had requested
a garment from the revered sayyid ali shiirazi for his first son. the custom had become fixed for the royal
family. "it s here. the woman in surat heard a child was due and had this sent to me in
agra before we left." she pointed to a folded loincloth, which had been washed to a perfect white. "it was
once worn by that sufi you adore, samad." "good. i m glad it s from samad. but what woman in
surat do you mean?" "you know who she is." mumtaz looked around the crowded room, and switched from turki to
persian. "she sent the weekly reports of mukarrab khan s affairs, and handled all the payments to those who collected
information in surat." iadar nodded almost imperceptibly. "that one. of course i remember her. her reports were always more reliable
than the shahbandar s. i find i can never trust any number that thief gives me. i always have to
ask myself what he would wish it to be, and then adjust. but what happened to her? i learned a
month ago that mukarrab khan was being sent to goa. i think a certain woman of power in agra finally
realized i was learning everything that went on at the port before she was, and thought mukarrab khan had betrayed
her." "the surat woman didn t go to goa with mukarrab khan. she made him divorce her. it was a
scandal." mumtaz smiled mysteriously. "you should come to the women s quarters more often, and learn the news." "but what
happened to her?" "there s a rumor in surat that the shahbandar, mirza nuruddin, is hiding her in the women
s quarters of his estate house. but actually she left for agra the next day, by the northern road. i
m very worried what may happen to her there." "how do you know all this? it sounds like bazaar gossip."
"it s all true enough. she sent a pigeon, to the fortress here. the message was waiting when we arrived."
"it s good she s out of surat. with mukarrab khan gone, she s no longer any help there. but
i ve always wanted to thank her somehow. she s one of the best. and our only woman. i don
t think anyone ever guessed what she really did." "i will thank her for you. her message was a request.
something only i could arrange. a favor for a favor." "and what was that?" "just something between women, my love.
nothing to do with armies and wars." mumtaz shifted on the bolster and took a perfumed pan. "allah, i m
tired." iadar studied her face again, marveling as always how it seemed to attest to her spirit. "then rest. i
hope the cannon won t disturb you." "it should have been another girl. then there d be no cannon." "and
no heir." /"adar turned to leave and mumtaz eased herself back on the bolster, then she lifted herself again and
called iadar. "who is escorting the english feringhi to agra?" "unfortunately it s vasant rao. and just when i need
him. but he demanded to do it personally." "i m glad." mumtaz smiled weakly. "have him see one of my
servants before they leave," "why should i bother him with that?" "to humor me." she paused. "is this feringhi handsome?"
"why do you ask?" "a woman s curiosity." "i haven t seen him yet. i do suspect he s quick.
perhaps too quick. but i ll find out more tomorrow. and then i ll decide what i have to do."
iadar paused at the doorway, while the dai pulled aside the curtains that had been newly hung. "sleep. and watch
over my new prince. he s our first victory in the deccan. i pray to allah he s not our
last." corridor, and his eyes searched through the smoke and flickering torchlight for some order in the arched doorways that
opened out on each level as they "went farther and farther down. ail object struck him across the face and
his hand plunged for his sword, before he remembered he had left it in his quarters, on iadar s command.
then he heard the high-pitched shriek of a bat and saw it flutter into the shadows. the torchbearers were ten
raiputs of iadar s personal guard, armed with the usual swords and half-pikes. none spoke as their footsteps clattered through
the musty subterranean air. hawksworth felt the dankness against the beads of sweat forming on his skin. as the old
memory of a dark prison welled up, he suddenly realized he was terrified. why did i agree to meet
