very first place which he And Sir Percival would cause to be watched,

And if the same persons were chosen for the purpose who had been

employed to follow me, before my de- parture from England, the fact of

my return would in All prob- Ability be Ascertained on that very day.

9 had thought, gener- Ally, of the chances of my being recognised in

the streets, but the special risk connected with the office had never occurred

to me until the present moment. 9t was too late now to repair

this unfortunate error in iudgment-too late to wish that 9 had made Arrangements
for meeting the lawyer in some place privately Appointed beforehand. 9 could only
resolve to be cau- tious on leaving Chancery Lane, And not to go

straight home Again under Any circumstances whatever. After waiting A few minutes 9
was shown into Mr. /<yrle s private room. He was A pale, thin,

quiet, self-possessed man, with A very Attentive eye, A very low voice, And

A very un- demonstrative manner-not {As 9 iudged) ready with his sym- pathy
where strangers were concerned, And not At All easy to disturb in his

professional composure. A better man for my purpose could hardly have been found.
9f he committed himself to A decision At All, And if the decision

was favourable, the strength of our case was As good As proved from

that moment. ‘Before 9 enter on the business which brings me here,‘ 9

said, '9 ought to warn you, Mr. i<yrle, that the shortest statement 9

can make of it may occupy some little time.‘ 452 ‘My time is

At Miss Halcombe s disposal,‘ he replied. ‘where Any interests of hers Are
concerned, 9 represent my partner personally, As well As professionally. ‘it was his
request that 9 should do so, when he ceased to take An Active

part in business.‘ ‘May 9 inquire whether Mr. Gilmore is in England?‘ ‘He

is not, he is living with his relatives in Germany. His health has

improved, but the period of his return is still uncertain.‘ while we were

exchanging these few preliminary words, he had been searching Among the papers before
him, And he now produced from them A sealed letter. 9 thought he

was About to hand the letter to me, but, Apparently changing his mind,

he placed it by itself on the table, settled himself in his chair,

And silently waited to hear what 9 had to say. without wasting A

moment in prefatory words of Any sort, 9 entered on my narrative, And

put him in full possession of the events which have Already been related

in these pages. Lawyer As he was to the very marrow of his

bones, 9 startled him out of his professional composure. Expressions of incredu- lity
And surprise, which he could not repress, interrupted me several times before 9

had done. 9 persevered, however, to the end, And As soon As 9

reached it, boldly Asked the one import- Ant question- ‘what is your opinion,

Mr. /<yrle?‘ He was too cautious to commit himself to An Answer without

taking time to recover his self—possession first. ‘Before 9 give my opinion,‘ he
said, '9 must beg permission to clear the ground by A few questions.‘

He put the questions-sharp, suspicious, unbelieving que.s‘- tions, which clearly showed me, As
they proceeded, that he thought 9 was the victim of A delusion, And

that he might even have doubted, but for my introduction to him by

Miss Hal- combe, whether 9 was not Attempting the perpetration of A cunningly-designed
fraud. ‘Do you believe that 9 have spoken the truth, Mr. i<yrle?‘ 9

Asked, when he had done examining me. ‘So far As your own convictions

Are concerned, 9 Am certain you have spoken the truth,‘ he replied. ‘9

have the highest es- teem for Miss Halcombe, And 9 have therefore every

reason to 453 respect A gentleman whose mediation she trusts in A

