be confuted, however preposterous his assertions. good-bye! read porson! goodbye!‘ he shook the invalid s hand, gave a iaunty wave of his broad-brimmed hat, and darted out of
the room with the same elasticity and energy with which he had entered it. the footman had already opened the great folding door to usher the illustrious visitor

to his carriage, when a lady stepped from the drawing-room and touched him on the sleeve. from behind the half- closed portiere of stamped velvet a little pale

face peeped out, half-curious, half-frightened. ‘may i have one word?‘ ‘surely, lady clara.‘ ‘i hope it is not intrusive. i would not for the world overstep the limits----‘

‘my dear lady clara!‘ interrupted the prime minister, with a youthful bow and wave. ‘pray do not answer me if i go too far. but i know that

lord arthur sibthorpe has applied for tangier. would it be a liberty if i asked you what chance he has?‘ ‘the post is filled up.‘ ‘oh!‘ in the

foreground and background there was a disappointed face. ‘and lord arthur has it.‘ the prime minister chuckled over his little piece of roguery. ‘we have iust decided it,‘

he continued. ‘lord arthur must go in a week. i am delighted to perceive, lady clara, that the appointment has your approval. tangier is a place of extraordinary

interest. catherine of braganza and colonel kirke will occur to your memory. burton has written well upon northern africa. i dine at windsor, so i am sure that

you will excuse my leaving you. i trust that lord charles will be better. he can hardly fail to be so with such a nurse.‘ he bowed, waved,

and was off down the steps to his brougham. as he drove away, lady clara could see that he was already deeply absorbed in a paper-covered novel. she

pushed back the velvet curtains, and returned into the drawing-room. her daughter stood in the sunlight by the window, tall, fragile, and exquisite, her features and outline not
unlike her mother s, but frailer, softer, more delicate. the golden light struck one half of her high-bred, sensitive face, and glimmered upon her thickly-coiled flaxen hair, striking
a pinkish tint from her closely-cut costume of fawn-coloured cloth with its dainty cinnamon ruchings. one little soft frill of chiffon nestled round her throat, from which the
white, graceful neck and well-poised head shot up like a lily amid moss. her thin white hands were pressed together, and her blue eyes turned beseechingly upon her

mother. ‘silly girl! silly girl!‘ said the matron, answering that imploring look. she put her hands upon her daughter s sloping shoulders and drew her towards her. ‘it

is a very nice place for a short time. it will be a stepping stone.‘ ‘but oh.’ mamma, in a week! poor arthur!‘ ‘he will be happy.‘ ‘what!

happy to part?‘ ‘he need not part, you shall go with him.‘ ‘oh! mammal‘ ‘yes, i say it.‘ ‘oh! mamma, in a week?‘ ‘yes indeed. a great deal

may be done in a week. i shall order your trousseau to-day.‘ ‘oh! you dear, sweet angel.’ but i am so frightened! and papa.’ oh! dear, i am

so frightened!‘ ‘your papa is a diplomatist, dear.‘ ‘yes, ma.‘ ‘but, between ourselves, he married a diplomatist too. if he can manage the british empire, i think that

i can manage him, ida. how long have you been engaged, child?‘ ‘ten weeks, mamma.‘ ‘then it is quite time it came to a head. lord arthur cannot

leave england without you. you must go to tangier as the minister s wife. now, you will sit there on the settee, dear, and let me manage entirely.

there is sir william s carriage! i do think that i know how to manage sir william. iames, lust ask the doctor to step in this way!‘ a

heavy, two-horsed carriage had drawn up at the door, and there came a single stately thud upon the knocker. an instant afterwards the drawing-room door flew open and

the footman ushered in the famous physician. he was a small man, clean-shaven, with the old-fashioned black dress and white cravat with high-standing collar. he swung his golden
pince- nez in his right hand as he walked, and bent forward with a peering, blinking expression, which was somehow suggestive of the dark and complex cases through

which he had seen. ‘ah‘ said he, as he entered. ‘my young patient! i am glad of the opportunity.‘ ‘yes, i wish to speak to you about her,

sir william. pray take this arm-chair.‘ ‘thank you, i will sit beside her,‘ said be, taking his place upon the settee. ‘she is looking better, less anaemic unquestionably,

and a fuller pulse, quite a little tinge of colour, and yet not hectic,‘ ‘i feel stronger, sir william.‘ ‘but she still has the pain in the side.‘

‘ah, that pain!’ he tapped lightly under the collar-bones, and then bent forward with his biaural stethoscope in either ear. ‘still a trace of dulness--still a slight crepitation,'

he murmured. ‘you spoke of a change, doctor.‘ ‘yes, certainly a iudicious change might be advisable.‘ ‘you said a dry climate. i wish to do to the

