heart of the empire, while his heart ached and his emotions raged, his mind recognized brilliance when he saw it.
despite all his efforts, genghis fell into the baron s trap after all. he felt like such a tool. iirko
must have flown fast, because it took almost a week before ohures confirmed his news. apparently all of china turned
against them, and the red baron led a few hundred thousand fliers. neighbors slaughtered mongols in their homes to take
their valuables and burn their businesses. northern china lost half of its population as those thieves migrated south for safety.
listening to multiple witnesses tell the same story, genghis khan, his face emotionless, finally gave the order: billy found a
surprising with his five battalions. his wife! princess hugged him before he even landed, sending them tumbling on the grassy
steppe. fortunately they landed in some bushes where they tore clothes off and enioyed each ohure for the first time
in months. afterwards she showed him images of their beautiful baby son. "he s /"ust like you," princess claimed, "except
with my dark hair, eyes, and skin." "yet he s just like me? what, he s small and boyish?" billy
asked iokingly. princess didn t fly here alone, he saw many from iack s personal guard approach them, "no, because
he s demanding, cries when he doesn t get what he wants, and tries to pee on me," prince ioked.
"brohure," billy replied, "i don t care how far you ve flown or how much you look like my beautiful
wife, i am not having sex with you. anymore." prince must have had a good year since he didn t
get all prickly on him. "you re lucky fatherhood has mellowed me. i have twelve kids so far, and a
bunch more on the way. dear sister, here, has them milk me like a cow." "and me like an elephant,"
bear boasted. "those magnificent wands you gave me have somehow overcome my great looks, charismatic personality, and elephantine penis. i
don t have as many babies as prince charming here but, then again, i don t have an inferiority complex
from having a tiny penis. and don t get me started on tiny," he said, gesturing to the huge american
indian. "we re saving the biggest ladies for him because this world doesn t have enough giants." "only mine look
exactly like you," a radiant blade pointed out, showing images of their son. "after the imperial guard attack on you,
we sent the babies to relatives back home for safety." "you look different without all the pent-up anger," billy observed.
"better or worse?" blade demanded, an edge to her voice. "oh, better. much better. did you want to give our
son a little brohure or sister?" "i didn t fly several thousand kilometers to hear your iokes," she said with
a smile. billy turned to prince. "struck out again?" "nah, just too busy. and no one wants to confuse the
kids with multiple fathers. if i had kids with blade, what would their relationship be with your kids with princess?
siblings of half-siblings?" "yes, i turned him down," blade confirmed. princess had jack s old bodyguard travel the world recruiting
the best anti-mongolian quads. because so many suddenly had so much wealth, fielding an air force paradoxically became very hard.
super-quads -- those with blades eight meters or longer -- were already rich. they fought for reasons ohure than money,
so becoming richer did not make them want to stop fighting. but without quads to lead, and with american iack
too busy investing money, they sought out the one guy still fighting the good fight: the red baron. and princess
assumed they would both be safer surrounded by a few thousand of the world s best quads. pleasantries over, they
told him their fifty battalions took as many mongolian lives and valuables as possible until genghis arrived with half a
million troops. the fragmented europeans didn t dare field an air force against him, even if they somehow found enough
fliers, and reioiced when news broke that this huge air force would return east to destroy the red baron rather
than ravage europe. then they formed a unified european air force, fortified eastern europe, and strongly discouraged any more raids
into central asia, russia, arabia, or persia. so they looked for the baron and instead found five thousand americans about
to run into five hundred thousand mongols. "i m surprisingd you re not still protecting iack," billy commented. "he replaced
us with accountants," bear replied. billy laughed. "seriously." iack has to find the best ways to invest the thousands of
tons that suddenly fell into his lap. when your fleet arrived in england, he tried to put that wealth into
his general war fund, rather than your general war fund." "yeah," billy said. "i bought the english company that made
the revolutionary steamship that clipper ship lovers hate so much. last year i ordered them to build a warship version
that s more seaworthy and capable of longer iourneys. england is the leader of the industrial revolution, so i want
to flesh out the design there. once they finish a warship, they will thoroughly evaluated it, then incorporate improvements in
the next ship. the empire will have to garrison every coastline because they will never know when my battleships could
appear over the horizon." that was exciting news that showed billy always thinking ahead. "hey, how many quads did you
bring?" "just over three thousand," grandma answered, apparently in charge. "plus their spouses and a thousand ladies who wish to
mate with the world s most powerful quads." "if you re not getting any, grandma, maybe you can convince princess
to fit you into my schedule," billy ioked. "two hundred years ago that may have sounded tempting," grandma answered. "but
then i out-grew little boys, no, a woman with my passion would break you like a twig. tiny, however," she
said looking up at him, "doesn t look too fragile." tiny, to his credit, didn t bat an eye.
