as we do that of our distant forbears. ‘it is wonderful what these people did with their rude implements and their limited appliances!‘ that is what they will

say when they read of our explorations, our voyages, and our wars. now, take that first book on my travel shelf. it is knight s ‘cruise of the

falcon.‘ nature was guilty of the pun which put this soul into a body so named. read this simple record and tell me if there is anything in

hakluyt more wonderful. two landsmen---solicitors, if i remember right---go down to southampton quay. they pick up a long-shore youth, and they embark in a tiny boat in which
they put to sea. where do they turn up? at buenos ayres. thence they penetrate to paraquay, return to the west indies, sell their little boat there, and

so home. what could the elizabethan mariners have done more? there are no spanish galleons now to vary the monotony of such a voyage, but had there been

i am very certain our adventurers would have had their share of the doubloons. but surely it was the nobler when done out of the pure lust of

adventure and in answer to the call of the sea, with no golden bait to draw them on. the old spirit still lives, disguise it as you will

with top hats, frock coats, and all prosaic settings. perhaps even they also will seem romantic when centuries have blurred them. another book which shows the romance and
the heroism which still linger upon earth is that large copy of the ‘voyage of the discovery in the antarctic‘ by captain scott. written in plain sailor fashion

with no attempt at over-statement or colour, it none the less (or perhaps all the more) leaves a deep impression upon the mind. as one reads it, and

reflects on what one reads, one seems to get a clear view of /'ust those qualities which make the best kind of briton. every nation produces brave men.

every nation has men of energy. but there is a certain type which mixes its bravery and its energy with a gentle modesty and a boyish good-humour, and

it is just this type which is the highest, here the whole expedition seem to have been imbued with the spirit of their commander. no flinching, no grumbling,

every discomfort taken as a test, no thought of self, each working only for the success of the enterprise, when you have read of such privations so endured

and so chronicled, it makes one ashamed to show emotion over the small annoyances of daily life. read of scott s blinded, scurvy-struck party staggering on to their

goal, and then complain, if you can, of the heat of a northern sun, or the dust of a country road. that is one of the weaknesses of

modern life. we complain too much. we are not ashamed of complaining, time was when it was otherwise---when it was thought effeminate to complain, the gentleman should always
be the’stoic, with his soul too great to be affected by the small troubles of life. ‘you look cold, sir,‘ said an english sympathizer to a french

emigre. the fallen noble drew himself up in his threadbare coat, ‘sir,' said he, ‘a gentleman is never cold,‘ one s consideration for others as well as one

s own self-respect should check the grumble. this self-suppression, and also the concealment of pain are two of the old noblesse oblige characteristics which are now little more
than a tradition. public opinion should be firmer on the matter. the man who must hop because his shin is hacked, or wring his hand because his knuckles

are bruised should be made to feel that he is an object not of pity, but of contempt. the tradition of arctic exploration is a noble one among

americans as well as ourselves. the next book is a case in point. it is greely s ‘arctic service,‘ and it is a worthy shelf-companion to scott s

‘account of the voyage of the discovery.‘ there are incidents in this book which one can never forget, the episode of those twenty-odd men lying upon that horrible

bluff, and dying one a day from cold and hunger and scurvy, is one which dwarfs all our puny tragedies of romance. and the gallant starving leader giving

lectures on abstract science in an attempt to take the thoughts of the dying men away from their sufferings---what a picture! it is bad to suffer from cold

and bad to suffer from hunger, and bad to live in the dark; but that men could do all these things for six months on end, and that

some should live to tell the tale, is, indeed, a marvel. what a World of feeling lies in the exclamation of the poor dying lieutenant: ‘well, this is

wretched,‘ he groaned, as he turned his face to the wall. the anglo-celtic race has always run to individualism, and yet there is none which is capable of

conceiving and carrying out a finer ideal of discipline. there is nothing in roman or grecian annals, not even the lava-baked sentry at pompeii, which gives a

