most certainly destined to revolutionise human thought and action as none other has done within the christian era. we shall look at it both in its strength and
in its Weakness, for where one is dealing with what one knows to be true one can fearlessly insist upon the whole of the truth. the movement which
is destined to bring vitality to the dead and cold religions has been called "modern spiritualism." the "modern" is good, since the thing itself, in one form or
another, is as old as history, and has always, however obscured by forms, been the red central glow in the depths of all religious ideas, permeating the bible
from end to end, but the word "spiritualism" has been so befouled by wicked charlatans, and so cheapened by many a sad incident, that one could almost wish
that some such term as "psychic religion" would clear the sub/"ect of old pre/udices, Just as mesmerism, after many years of obloquy, was rapidly accepted when its name
was changed to hypnotism. on the other hand, one remembers the sturdy pioneers who have fought under this banner, and who were prepared to risk their careers, their
professional success, and even their reputation for sanity, by publicly asserting what they knew to be the truth. their brave, unselfish devotion must do something to cleanse the
name for which they fought and suffered. it was they who nursed the system which promises to be, not a new religion--it is far too big for that--but
part of the common heritage of knowledge shared by the whole human race. perfected spiritualism, however, will probably bear about the same relation to the spiritualism of 1850
as a modern locomotive to the bubbling little kettle which heralded the era of steam. it will end by being rather the proof and basis of all religions
than a religion in itself. we have already too many religions--but too few proofs. those first manifestations at hydesville varied in no way from many of which we
have record in the past, but the result arising from them differed very much, because, for the first time, it occurred to a human being not merely to
listen to inexplicable sounds, and to fear them or marvel at them, but to establish communication with them. iohn wesley s father might have done the same more
than a century before had the thought occurred to him when he was a witness of the manifestations at epworth in 1I26. it was only when the young
fox girl struck her hands together and cried "do as i do" that there was instant compliance, and consequent proof of the presence of an intelligent invisible force,
thus differing from all other forces of which we know, the circumstances were humble, and even rather sordid, upon both sides of the veil, human and spirit, yet
it was, as time will more and more clearly show, one of the turning points of the world s history, greater far than the fall of thrones or
the rout of armies. some artist of the future will draw the scene--the sitting-room of the wooden, shack-like house, the circle of half-awed and half- critical neighbours, the
child clapping her hands with upturned laughing face, the dark corner shadows where these strange new forces seem to lurk--forces often apparent, and now come to stay and
to effect the complete revolution of human thought. we may well ask why should such great results arise from such petty sources? so argued the highbrowed philosophers of
greece and rome when the outspoken paul, with the fisherman peter and his half-educated disciples, traversed all their learned theories, and with the help of women, slaves, and
schismatic iews, subverted their ancient creeds. one can but answer that providence has its own way of attaining its, results, and that it seldom conforms to our opinion
of what is most appropriate. we have a larger experience of such phenomena now, and we can define with some accuracy what it was that happened at hydesville
in the year 1848. we know that these matters are governed by law and by conditions as much as any other phenomena of the universe, though at the
moment it seemed to the public to be an isolated and irregular outburst. on the one hand, you had a material, earth-bound spirit of a low order of
development which needed a physical medium in order to be able to indicate its presence. on the other, you had that rare thing, a good physical medium. the
result followed as surely as the flash follows when the electric battery and wire are both properly adjusted. corresponding experiments, where effect, and cause duly follow, are being
worked out at the present moment by professor crawford, of belfast, as detailed in his two recent books, where he shows that there is an actual loss of
weight of the medium in exact proportion to the physical phenomenon produced.[1] the whole secret of mediumship on this material side appears to lie in the power, quite
independent of oneself, of passively giving up some portion of one s bodily substance for the use of outside influences. why should some have this power and
