beliefs, judgements and knowledge differ only with respect to their content {the proposition believed/judged/known, etc.) and not in their intrinsic quality or
feel. Sensations are exactly the opposite: differently felt sensations may relate to the same content. Thoughts can also be classified in terms
of intentionality (they are "about" something) - sensations only in terms of their intrinsic character. They are, therefore, distinct from discursive events
{such as reasoning, knowing, thinking, or remembering) and do not depend upon the subject s intellectual endowments (like his power to conceptualize}.
In this sense, they are mentally "primitive" and probably take place at a level of the psyche where reason and thought have
no recourse. The epistemological status of sensations is much less clear. when we see an object, are we aware of a "visual
sensation" in addition to being aware of the object? Perhaps we are only aware of the sensation, wherefrom we infer the existence
of an object, or otherwise construct it mentally, indirectly? This is what, the Representative Theory tries to persuade us, the brain does
upon encountering the visual stimuli emanating from a real, external object. The Naive Realists say that one is only aware of the
external object and that it is the sensation that we infer. This is a less tenable theory because it fails to explain
how do we directly know the character of the pertinent sensation. what is indisputable is that sensation is either an experience or
a faculty of having experiences. In the first case, we have to introduce the idea of sense data (the objects of the
experience) as distinct from the sensation {the experience itself). But isn t this separation artificial at best." can sense data exist without
sensation? Is "sensation" a mere structure of the language, an internal accusative? Is "to have a sensation" equivalent to "to strike a
blow" (as some dictionaries of philosophy have it)? Moreover, sensations must be had by subjects. Are sensations objects? Are they properties of
the subjects that have them? Must they intrude upon the subject s consciousness in order to exist - or can they exist
in the "psychic background" (for instance, when the subject is distracted}? Are they mere representations of real events {is pain a representation
of iniury}? Are they located? we know of sensations when no external ob/"ect can be correlated with them or when we deal
with the obscure, the diffuse, or the general. Some sensations relate to specific instances - others to kinds of experiences, So, in
theory, the same sensation can be experienced by several people. "It would be the same k:IND of experience - though, of course,
different instances of it. Finally, there are the "oddball" sensations, which are neither entirely bodily - nor entirely mental. The sensations of
being watched or followed are two examples of sensations with both components clearly intertwined. Feeling is a "hyper-concept" which is made of
both sensation and emotion. "It describes the ways in which we experience both our world and our selves, It coincides with sensations
whenever it has a bodily component. But it is sufficiently flexible to cover emotions and attitudes or opinions. But attaching names to
phenomena never helped in the long run and in the really important matter of understanding them. To identify feelings, let alone to
describe them, is not an easy task. It is difficult to distinguish among feelings without resorting to a detailed description of causes,
inclinations and dispositions. "in addition, the relationship between feeling and emotions is far from clear or well established. (an we emote without
feeling? can we explain emotions, consciousness, even simple pleasure in terms of feeling? "is feeling a practical method, can it be used
to learn about the world, or about other people? How do we know about our own feelings? "Instead of throwing light on
the subject, the dual concepts of f¢eling and sensation seem to confound matters even further. A more basic level needs to be
broached, that of sense data (or sensa, as in this text). Sense data are entities cyclically defined. Their existence depends upon being
sensed by a sensor equipped with senses. Yet, they define the senses to a large extent (imagine trying to define the sense
of vision without visuals}. Ostensibly, they are entities, though subjective. Allegedly, they possess the properties that we perceive in an external object
(if it is there), as it appears to have them. In other words, though the external object is perceived, what we really
get in touch with directly, what we apprehend without mediation - are the subiective sensa. what is (probably) perceived is merely inferred
from the sense data. In short, all our empirical knowledge rests upon our acquaintance with sensa. Every perception has as its basis
pure experience. But the same can be said about memory, imagination, dreams, hallucinations. Sensation, as opposed to these, is supposed to be
error free, not subject to filtering or to interpretation, special, infallible, direct and immediate. It is an awareness of the existence of
entities: objects, ideas, impressions, perceptions, even other sensations. Russell and Moore said that sense data have all (and only} the properties that
they appear to have and can only be sensed by one subject. But these all are idealistic renditions of senses, sensations and
sensa. "in practice, it is notoriously difficult to reach a consensus regarding the description of sense data or to base any meaningful
(let alone useful} knowledge of the physical world on them. There is a great variance in the conception of sensa. Berkeley, ever
the incorrigible practical 8riton, said that sense data exist only if and when sensed or perceived by us. Nay, their very existence
VS their being perceived or sensed by us. Some sensa are public or part of lager assemblages of sensa. Their interaction with
the other sensa, parts of objects, or surfaces of objects may distort the inventory of their properties. They may seem to lack
properties that they do possess or to possess properties that can be discovered only upon close inspection (not immediately evident). Some sense
data are intrinsically vague. what is a striped paiama? How many stripes does it contain? we do not know. It is sufficient
to note (=to visually sense} that it has stripes all over. Some philosophers say that if a sense data can be sensed
then they possibly exist. These sensa are called the sensibilia (plural of sensibile). Even when not actually perceived or sensed, objects consist
of sensibilia. This makes sense data hard to differentiate. They overlap and where one begins may be the end of another. Nor
is it possible to say if sensa are changeable because we do not really know wt-{AT they are (objects, substances, entities, qualities,
events?}. Other philosophers suggested that sensing is an act directed at the objects called sense data. Other hotly dispute this artificial separation.
To see red is simply to see in a certain manner, that is: to see redly. This is the adverbial school, "H
is close to the contention that sense data are nothing but a linguistic convenience, a noun, which enables us to discuss appearances.
For instance, the "Gray" sense data is nothing but a mixture of red and sodium. Yet we use this convention (gray) for
convenience and efficacy s sakes. 8. The Evidence An important facet of emotions is that they can generate and direct behaviour.
