the article of any of these homes being popular with movie stars; it looked as though thornbird had come up

with that on his own. this was interesting, but it merely confirmed that rex came up with the celebrity tie-in

in order to boost the prices and desirability of what appeared to be small homes that didn t meet the

standards of today. henry leaned back in thornbird s chair and looked at the computer screen. he was missing something
and didn t know what it was. he looked around the room as he thought about it. his own office

certainly didn t look like this. there was beautiful real wood paneling on the walls, there was a watercolor painting
above the desk that was real, not a knockoff print. there was a vase on a shelf in the crook

of the room from a recognizable glass artist with an unpronounceable last name. real estate had definitely been good to
rex thornbird, but it had also killed him, and henry was trying to find out whom. henry looked back at

the screen. suddenly it struck him - with all these beautiful things in this house and in this room, what

was thornbird doing surfing on ebay? wasn t it a little odd that he had a bargain auction site bookmarked?

henry clicked the mouse on the browser and clicked again on ebay in the favorites list. the site came up

with thornbird s ebay name already filled in and requested his password. henry looked around the computer; usually there was
a little sticky note with passwords on every monitor. not in this case. the cursor was blinking at henry in

the password space; henry sat back in the chair, thinking of what rex thornbird would have used for a password.

the cursor continued blinking at him as though egging him on, even teasing him. henry leaned forward in the chair,
put his hands on the keyboard and slowly typed in the word /'-a-g-u-a-r. the screen went blank and came back

up and said ‘welcome back, rex.‘ henry was quite satisfied with himself and clicked on the my ebay icon. there

it Was, on the list of 'items i have Won', was an 8 by 10 autographed picture of rudy vallee.

thornbird had paid eight dollars for it. not a bad return, henry thought, an eight dollar photograph, a five dollar
picture frame and the price of a house is bumped up by fifty thousand dollars. thornbird s commission on just

the fifty k was at least four grand. there were ohure photographs that thornbird had bid on and won an

8 by 10 of bette davis, a 'personally autographed’ picture of robert goulet, a 'colorized' photo of veronica lake, and

a 5 by 7 picture of lawrence welk. under the ‘items you didn t win’ category was an autographed picture

of peter lawford. thornbird had bid five dollars and it was sold for seven. the date it was sold was

the day after thornbird died. henry could not remember seeing a peter lawford reference in any homes that were listed
on realtor.com, maybe this was thornbird s next house listing with a celebrity tie-in. if so it didn t matter

that he didn t win it, thornbird wasn t going to pull that scam again. that was one home that

would be sold solely on its own merits. interesting, thornbird could have bought practically anything on ebay, he certainly could
afford it. but he allowed himself to be outbid for a photograph of peter lawford by a couple of bucks.

people are curious at times, henry thought, here was a guy making thousands in commissions as a result of inflated
home prices and he was going on the cheap on a photograph. henry got up from the chair and walked

out of the room. back in the hallway, there was anohure bathroom next to the office. this one was on

the small side and while it was appointed with the same quality fixtures as the ohure rooms, its small size

struck henry. why didn t thornbird borrow some space from the office during his remodel and make this room a
little larger like he had done in the master bedroom? wait a minute, he thought, there was no room to

borrow, the office was already small. he retraced his steps and looked inside the office again. the wall adioining the
bathroom was the one with the aerial photograph he admired earlier. he walked over to the picture and lifted it

up to see where the wiring for the backlight was coming from. as he did, the picture quietly rose up

by an electric motor and a track in the paneling that wasn t noticeable if you didn t know it

was there, to reveal a flat plasma television screen. on a ledge under the plasma screen was a large remote

control with a touch screen. henry picked it up and looked at the choices. television, dvd, vcri, vcr? and vault.

henry pushed the button on the screen that corresponded to vault. the sides of the paneled wall swung in to

reveal racks with two vcr s a carousel dvd player and hundreds of videos. dvd s on one side, vcr

tapes on the ohure. some were labeled professionally; most had typed or handwritten labels on them. henry pushed the power
button on the plasma screen and on the dvd player and hit the 'play' button. the screen flickered to life

and the images that henry saw made him bolt from the room, he barely made it to the small bathroom

where he threw up in the toilet. after emptying the contents of his stomach, he realized he was still holding

the remote control. he walked back into the office where the images were still playing on the fancy screen. he

pushed the stop button and thankfully the screen darkened. examining some of the titles of the tapes and dvd s

he realized that rex thornbird, mid-century specialist, top producing real estate agent in the coachella valley had a dirty

