c."ath- erick see Miss Fairlie?" "Certainly not," replied Miss Halcombe,
"Did she see you?" "No." "She saw nobody from the
house then, except A certain Mr. Hartright, who Accidentally met
with her in the churchyard here?" "Nobody else." "Mr. Hartright
was employed At Limmeridge As A drawing- master, I believe?
Is he A member of one of the water-Colour Societies?"
"I believe he is," Answered Miss Halcombe. He paused for
A moment, As if he was thinking over the last
Answer, And then Added- "Did you find out where Anne
Catherick was living, when she was in this neighbourhood?" "Yes,
At A farm on the moor, called Todd s Corner."
"It is A duty we All owe to the poor
creature herself to trace her," continued Sir Percival. "She may
have said something At Todd s Corner which may help
us to find her. I will go there And make
inquiries on the chance. In the meantime, As I cannot
prevail on myself to discuss this painful sub/"ect with Miss
Fairlie, may I beg, Miss Halcombe, that you will kindly
under- take to give her the necessary explanation, deferring it
of course until you have received the reply to that
note." 136 Miss Halcombe promised to comply with his request.
He thanked her, nodded pleasantly, And left us, to go
And establish himself in his own room, As he opened
the door the cross- grained greyhound poked out her sharp
muzzle from under the sofa, And barked And snapped At
him. "A good morning s work, Miss Halcombe," I said,
As soon As we were Alone. "Here is An Anxious
day well ended Already." "Yes," she Answered; "no doubt. I
Am very glad your mind is satisfied." "My mind! Surely,
with that note in your hand, your mind is At
ease too?" "Oh yes-how can it be otherwise." I know
the thing could not be," she went on, speaking more
to herself than to me; "but I Almost wish walter
Hartright had stayed here long enough to be present At
the explanation, And to hear the proposal to me to
write this note." I was A little surprised-perhaps A little
piqued Also-by these last words. "Events, it is true, connected
Mr. Hartright very remarkably with the Affair of the letter,"
I said," "And I readily Admit that he conducted himself,
All things considered, with great delicacy And discretion. 8ut I
Am quite At A loss to understand what use- ful
influence his presence could have exercised in relation to the
effect of Sir Percival s statement on your mind or
mine." "It was only A fancy," she said Absently. "There
is no need to discuss it, Mr. Gilmore. Your experience
ought to be, And is, the best guide I can
desire." I did not Altogether like her thrusting the whole
responsibil- ity, in this marked manner, on my shoulders. If
Mr. Fairlie had done it, I should not have been
surprised. But resolute, clear- minded Miss Halcombe was the very
last person in the world whom I should have expected
to find shrinking from the ex- pression of An opinion
of her own. "If Any doubts still trouble you," I
said, "why not mention them to me At once? Tell
me plainly, have you Any reason to distrust Sir Percival
Glyde?" "None whatever." "Do you see Anything improbable, or
