his house, lest he die in the battle, and another man take her. And the officers shall speak further unto

the people, and they shall say, what man is there that is fearful and faint-hearted .’ let him go and

return unto his house, lest his brethren s heart faint as well as his heart. And it shall be, when

the officers have made an end of speaking unto the people, that they shall make captains of the armies to
lead the people. when thou comest nigh unto a city to fight against it, then proclaim peace unto it. And

it shall be, if it make thee answer of peace, and open unto thee, then it shall be, that all

the people that is found therein shall be tributaries unto thee, and they shall serve thee. And if it will

make no peace with thee, but will make war against thee, then thou shalt besiege it .' and when the

Lord thy God hath delivered it into thine hands, thou shalt smite every male thereof with the edge of the
sword : but the women, and the little ones, and the cattle, and all that is in the city, even

all the spoil thereof, shalt thou take unto thyself ; and thou shalt eat the spoil of thine enemies, which

the Lord thy God hath given thee. Thus shalt thou do unto all the cities which are very far off

from thee, which are not of the cities of these nations. 4 5 6' 7 8 9 10 11 72

13 14 15 457 Deuteronomy 21 But of the cities of these people, which the Lord thy God doth give

thee for an inheritance, thou shalt save alive nothing that breatheth : but thou shalt utterly destroy them ; namely,
the /-/ittites, and the Amorites, the Canaanites, and the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the ﬂebusites ,' as the Lord thy
God hath commanded thee : that they teach you not to do after all their abominations, which they have done
unto their gods ; so should ye sin against the Lord your God. when thou shalt besiege a city a

long time, in making war against it to take it, thou shalt not destroy the trees thereof by forcing an

axe against them : for thou mayest eat of them, and thou shalt not cut them down (for the tree

of the field is man s life} to employ them in the siege : only the trees which thou knowest

that they be not trees for meat, thou shalt destroy and cut them down .' and thou shalt build bulwarks

against the city that maketh war with thee, until it be subdued. 21 Settlement for an Unknown Murderer s Crime
9f one be found slain in the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee to possess it, lying in

the field, and it be not known who hath slain him : then thy elders and thy iudges shall come

forth, and they shall measure unto the cities which are round about him that is slain : and it shall

be, that the city which is next unto the slain man, even the elders of that city shall take a

heifer, which hath not been wrought with, and which hath not drawn in the yoke ,' and the elders of

that city shall bring down the heifer unto a rough valley, which is neither eared nor sown, and shall strike
off the heifer s neck there in the valley. 16 17 18 19 20 1 2 3 4 458 Deuteronomy

27 And the priests the sons of Levi shall come near ,' for them the Lord thy God hath chosen

to minister unto him, and to bless in the name of the Lord ; and by their word shall every

controversy and every stroke be tried .' and all the elders of that city, that are next unto the slain

man, shall wash their hands over the heifer that is beheaded in the valley : and they shall answer and

say, Our hands have not shed this blood, neither have our eyes seen it. Be merciful, O Lord, unto thy

people ‘Israel, whom thou hast redeemed, and lay not innocent blood unto thy people of ‘Israel s charge. And the
blood shall be forgiven them. So shalt thou put away the guilt of innocent blood from among you, when thou
shalt do that which is right in the sight of the Lord. Various Laws when thou goest forth to war

against thine enemies, and the Lord thy God hath delivered them into thine hands, and thou hast taken them captive,
and seest among the captives a beautiful woman, and hast a desire unto her, that thou wouldest have her to
thy wife ; then thou shalt bring her home to thine house ; and she shall shave her head, and

pare her nails .' and she shall put the raiment of her captivity from off her, and shall remain in

thine house, and bewail her father and her mother a full month : and after that thou shalt go in

unto her, and be her husband, and she shall be thy wife. And it shall be, if thou have no

delight in her, then thou shalt let her go whither she will .' but thou shalt not sell her at

all for money, thou shalt not make merchandise of her, because thou hast humbled her. ‘H a man have two
wives, one beloved, and another hated, and they have borne him children, both the beloved and the hated ,' and
if the firstborn son be hers that was hated : 5 6 7 8 9 70 11 12 13 3'4

15 459 Deuteronomy 22 then it shall be, when he maketh his sons to inherit that which he hath, that

he may not make the son of the beloved firstborn before the son of the hated, which is indeed the

firstborn : but he shall acknowledge the son of the hated for the firstborn, by giving him a double portion
of all that he hath : for he is the beginning of his strength ,' the right of the firstborn

is his, ‘if a man have a stubborn and rebellious son, which will not obey the voice of his father,

or the voice of his mother, and that, when they have chastened him, will not hearken unto them : then

shall his father and his mother lay hold on him, and bring him out unto the elders of his city,

and unto the gate of his place ,' and they shall say unto the elders of his city, This

