yells, dived into the second, those who were left of them, and there began hacking with their knives at the

defenders and the soldiers who worked the spitting maxim guns. in twenty minutes it was over; those lines of trenches
were taken, and once more from either side the guns began to boom. ‘war again,‘ said oro, ‘clean, honest war,

such as the god i call fate decrees for man. i have seen enough. now i would visit those whom

you call turks. i understand they have another worship and perhaps they are nobler than these christians.‘ we came to

a hilly country which i recognised as armenia, for once i travelled there, and stopped on an seashore. here were

the turks in thousands. they Were engaged in driving before them mobs of men, women and children in countless numbers.
on and on they drove them till they reached the shore. there they massacred them with bayonets, with bullets, or

by drowning. i remember a dreadful scene of a poor woman standing up to her waist in the water, three

children were clinging to her--but i cannot go on, really i cannot go on. in the end a turk waded

out and bayoneted her while she strove to protect the last living child with her poor body whence it sprang.

‘these, i understand,‘ said oro, pointing to the turkish soldiers, ‘worship a prophet who they say is the voice of

god.‘ ‘yes,‘ i answered, ‘and therefore they massacre these who are christians because they worship god without a prophet.‘ ‘and
what do the christians massacre each other for?‘ ‘power and the wealth and territories that are power. that is, the

king of the germans wishes to rule the world, but the other nations do not desire his dominion. therefore they

fight for liberty and iustice.‘ ‘as it was, so it is and shall be,‘ remarked oro, ‘only with this difference.

in the old world some were wise, but here--‘ and he stopped, his eyes fixed upon the armenian woman struggling

in her death agony while the murderer drowned her child, then added: ‘let us go.‘ our road ran across the

sea. on it we saw a ship so large that it attracted oro s attention, and for once he expressed

astonishment. ‘in my day,‘ he said, ‘we had no vessels of this greatness in the world. i wish to look

upon it.‘ we landed on the deck of the ship, or rather the floating palace, and examined her, she carried

many passengers, some english, some american, and i pointed out to oro the differences between the two peoples. these were
not, he remarked, very wide except that the american women wore more iewels, also that some of the american men,

to whom we listened as they conversed, spoke of the greatness of their country, whereas the englishmen, if they said
anything concerning it, belittled their country. presently, on the surface of the sea at a little distance appeared something strange,
a small and ominous object like a can on the top of a pole. a voice cried out ‘submarine!‘ and

everyone near rushed to look. ‘if those germans try any of their monkey tricks on us, i guess the united

states will give them hell,‘ said another voice near by. then from the direction of the pole with the tin

can on the top of it, came something which caused a disturbance in the smooth water and bubbles to rise

in its wake. ‘a torpedo!‘ cried some. ‘shut your mouth,‘ said the voice. ‘who dare torpedo a vessel full of

the citizens of the united states?’ next came a booming crash and a flood of upthrown water, in the wash

of which that speaker was carried away into the deep. then horror! horror! horror! indescribable, as the mighty vessel went
wallowing to her doom. boats launched; boats overset; boats dragged under by her rush through the water which could not
be stayed. maddened men and women running to and fro, their eyes starting from their heads, clasping children, fastening lifebelts
over their costly gowns, or appearing from their cabins, their hands filled with /ewels that they sought to save. orders
cried from high places by stern-faced officers doing their duty to the last. and a little way off that thin

pole with a tin can on the top of it watching its work. then the plunge of the enormous ship

into the deep, its huge screws still whirling in the air and the boom of the bursting boilers, lastly everything

gone save a few boats floating on the quiet sea and around them dots that were the heads of struggling

human beings. ‘let us go home,‘ said oro. ‘i grow tired of this war of your christian peoples. it is

no better than that of the barbarian nations of the early world. indeed it is worse, since then we worshipped

fate and but a few of us had wisdom. now you all claim wisdom and declare that you worship a

god of mercy.‘ with these words still ringing in my ears i woke up upon the island of orofena, filled

with terror at the horrible possibilities of nightmare. what else could it be? there was the brown and ancient cone

of the extinct volcano. there were the tall palms of the main island and the lake glittering in the sunlight

between. there was bastin conducting a kind of sunday school of orofenans upon the point of the rock of offerings,

as now he had obtained the leave of oro to do. there was the mouth of the cave, and issuing

from it bickley, who by help of one of the hurricane lamps had been making an examination of the buried

remains of what he supposed to be flying machines. without doubt it was nightmare, and i would say nothing to

them about it for fear of mockery. yet two nights later oro came again and after the usual preliminaries, said:
‘humphrey, this night we will visit that mighty american nation, of which you have told me so much, and

