and a closed palanquin was brought in by four eunuchs. it was accompanied by veiled women singing something hawksworth did
not understand. the palanquin was carried to the center of the room, where a low platform covered with gold brocade

had been positioned, and then the eunuchs lowered it to the marble floor. the curtains were drawn aside and a

veiled woman emerged, her small body almost smothered in a dress that seemed made of multiple layers of beaten gold.

she was helped to the middle of the platform, still wearing a veil that covered her entire face. chants of

‘hail to the bride‘ arose on all sides. then allaudin was escorted forward, taking his place on the platform beside

her. he stole a quick, distasteful glance at the veiled figure beside him, then an official smile illuminated his face

and he sat patiently as the qazi was summoned in front of them. the official was bearded, stern- faced, and

transparently arrogant. he Stood before the veiled bride and motioned around him for silence, ‘is it by your own consent

that this marriage take place with prince allaudin, son of his royal majesty?‘ from beneath the layers of the veil

came a muffled, almost hesitant, ‘it is by my consent.‘ the qazi seemed satisfied and began reading a passage from

the quran, informing her that marriage depends on three circumstances: the assent of the bride and groom, the evidence of
two witnesses, and the marriage settlement. he then turned to allaudin and asked him to name the sum he brought.

allaudin mumbled a figure that hawksworth did not catch, but then the qazi repeated it for the guests. hawksworth caught

his breath when he realized the amount named was fifty lakhs of rupees. then allaudin said something else, which the

qazi did not repeat. later hawksworth learned that allaudin had added he was giving only ten lakhs of rupees then,

and the balance at some indefinite future time. the qazi blessed the royal pair, praying that they would be blissful

in this world and in eternity, and then wrote something quickly in a book he carried. finally the eunuchs appeared

again and assisted the bride into the palanquin. the marriage ceremony seemed to be over. a glass of wine was

placed in hawksworth S hand, and he looked up to see arangbar beaming with satisfaction. ‘now we drink, inglish, come,

sit closer and help me toast the bridegroom.‘ ‘it was truly a royal wedding, your maiesty.‘ ‘but it s not

over, inglish.‘ arangbar roared with laughter. ‘the hardest part is yet to come. does my son have the strength to

complete the work he s offered to undertake? no one can leave until we re sure.‘ hawksworth had begun his

third glass of wine when princess layla reappeared, wearing a lighter dress, though still resplendent. behind her eunuchs carried several
palanquins piled high with vessels and trays of silver. following them were servants bearing bundles on their heads. ‘those are
the wares she brings to the marriage, inglish, and her servants, i think she will make him a good wife.‘

the royal pair moved together, layla still veiled, and then queen ianahara stepped down from the dais and took a

large mirror handed her by a turbaned eunuch. she walked to the couple and stopped directly in front of them.

as they stood facing her, she held the mirror before allaudin and reached to lift layla s veil, giving him

his first glimpse of his bride. hawksworth studied her with curiosity. she was plain. and she looked very frightened. ‘it

s auspicious, inglish, if his first sight of his bride is in a mirror. i have not seen her before

either.‘ arangbar examined her for a moment, then turned to nadir sharif. ‘what do you think? should i buy him

another one for his bed?‘ ';he s a goddess of beauty, maiesty. inspiration for a poet.‘ ‘is that what you

think?‘ arangbar sipped pensively from his cup. ‘well, perhaps it s true. we ll discover soon enough if she inspires

her groom.‘ the guests watched as allaudin and layla were helped into a large palanquin. in moments their procession was
winding out of the palace, followed by layla s household silver, to a great fanfare of drums and trumpets and

the shouts of servants. ‘peace on the prophet!‘ ‘there is no nobility but the nobility of mohammed!‘ ‘allah be with

him, the noblest, the purest, the highest!‘ hawksworth settled back against his bolster and realized groggily that it was already
past two o clock in the morning, when the wedding procession had disappeared from view, the jubilant servants immediately turned
to preparations for the banquet. ‘sometimes life can be sweet, inglish.‘ arangbar leaned back against a bolster and pinched ianahara
s hand. ‘i think he should have more wives. you know there s a saying in india: a man should

have four wives: a persian to have someone to talk to; a khurasani to keep his house; a big-breasted hindu

from the south to nurse his children; and a bengali to whip, as a warning to the other three. so

far he has only the persian.‘ hawksworth noticed that ianahara did not ioin in the general laughter. then arangbar took
another drink and turned to hawksworth. ‘but you know i don t entirely agree with that wisdom, inglish. the holy

prophet, on whom be peace, wisely realized a man needs more than one wife. he also demanded of us that

we give each of them equal attention, never to turn away from any one of them. what man can do

that, even with allah s help? it is never possible. so we all do the best we can. it is

the will of allah.‘ arangbar paused to swallow a ball of affion as he watched the trays of lamb being

placed before them. ‘tell me, inglish, have you found a wife for yourself yet?‘ ‘not as yet, your maiesty.‘ he

paused. ‘there are so many to choose.‘ ‘then take more than one, inglish.‘ arangbar washed down the opium, ‘it

