you recall our little argument, i gather?" "i certainly do, and it looks like she was right!" i sald with
a smile. harry neither laughed nor smiled. "yes, of course she was," he answered, then hastily and emphatically added, "in
her dreams!" i laughed. "and also in yours!" harry flashed a short, sardonic smile. "so where is this wife of
yours? why isn t she also here in this dream of mine?" "she hasn t been resurrected yet. but soon
she will be!" i answered cheerily. "of course, anything is possible in dreams!" "it sure is! and this is one
heck of a dream to live in," my father sald, keeping up the charade. dad then turned towards me. "hey,
son, since he liked your playing so much, how about giving him a number or two?" harry looked at me.
"yes, why not? i suppose you ll play as well in my dream as you did in real life." "better!"
i bragged. i therefore retrieved my guitar and footstool and sat myself on a chair in the middle of our
living room. "all right, harry, any requests?" for a moment he was silent, unsure of his choice. finally, he replied,
"beethoven s moonlight sonata." although written for the pianoforte, and thus technically not part of the guitar repertoire, nonetheless, francisco
tarrega had also arranged a guitar version for it. i had always loved both the piano and guitar versions, and
thus played it often at guitar recitals. i took a second or two to compose myself. then i commenced the
famous arpeggio introduction, slowly and somberly, letting the notes ripple forth their melancholic charm. then came its equally melancholic melody,
riding with and above the ongoing arpeggio. harry and my parents stared and listened intently to the music flowing gently
and seductively out of that magical musical box. occasionally, i glanced up at harry, delighted to see that he too
seemed to be enjoying it. finally, upon completion, my parents clapped, grinning with admiration. yet harry looked as mournful as
the music he had just heard. "yes, a fine performance. well done!" then with another ironic smile, he added, "perhaps
even segovia would have approved." "you know of andres segovia?" i asked, complemented by the praise. "yes. i have even
seen him perform live in concert, as i have a number of other great musicians, including the pianist, wilhelm kempff,
and the violinist, mischa elman." "by the sounds of it, you re a music connoisseur. did you also play an
instrument?" i asked. he gravely shook his head. "no, i knew i would never have the talent, nor in fact
the time." "but here you have!" i quickly added. "i can teach you. i also play the piano. it had
been, after all, my second instrument of choice for my master s degree in music. of course, i can t
play it nearly as well as the guitar. still, i can teach you either, or even both of these instruments.
would you like to learn?" harry sniggered. "what? learn to play a musical instrument whilst still being in a dream!"
i smiled almost mischievously at my next ploy. "but didn t you say anything is possible in dreams?" he nodded.
"yes, i did." "well, harry, because you believe anything is possible in dreams, what about you now playing the guitar?"
he hesitated for a moment and then accepted the challenge. "all right, i ll just focus on the belief that
i can play beethoven on the guitar. as roger had suggested to me, when i m in one of these
lucid dreams, i need to take control. he believed it was possible by visualizing something strongly enough, i might be
able to affect the outcome of the dream," he shrugged his shoulders, "all right, i might as well test his
hypothesis right now." he placed the guitar on his lap and clumsily placed his left fingers on the fretboard, and
the right hand over the strings near the sounding hole. then, almost theatrically, he closed his eyes and visualized himself
playing the guitar. he must have gone through the entire score, but finally he opened his eyes, and then with
an intent glare, he started to pluck the strings. however, instead of moonlight sonata we only heard some muffled and
uncoordinated notes. we all laughed heartily, except harry. he instantly stopped and angrily pushed the guitar back at me.
told you i couldn t play!" we all stifled our laughter. "i m sorry, harry, but you either just proved
the error of roger s hypothesis, or else we have finally proved to you that you re not dreaming." "you
ve done nothing of the kind! i just couldn t focus myself enough, that s all." i smiled and nodded.
"all right, harry, i won t try to convince you. just go ahead and continue dreaming. meanwhile, as long as
it lasts, can i show you around your very own dream?" it was Just then that cory started sniffing around
harry s legs. "does this dog have to come with us?" he asked, pushing cory aside. it was obvious that
harry was no animal lover, but i simply smiled and replied, "no, of course not." "good!" be snapped. "have you
any pens and writing material in this dreamworld?" puzzled, i asked, "yes, but why s that?" he stared at me
as if i was an imbecile. "i thought that would be obvious." he then heaved a sigh. "by writing the
dream down, i will then be able to recall the details better when i wake up in the morning. have
you already forgotten that i keep a iournal for my lucid dreams?" "no, of course not. i ll go get
them for you," moments later, i handed him a pencil and a clipboard with a stack of paper. thus prepared,
we commenced our tour of paradise. the first place my father and i showed him was the building site area
on the southern outskirts of our village. a group of our brethren were currently constructing a dozen or so
"i
