to bring from a distant part of the shop a pair of wheels, one of which was of iron and
weighed over four hundred pounds, while its mate was made of wood and finished off to look exactly like its
companion. the workman in the secret always looked out and got hold of the wooden wheel, which he could carry
off with ease, while his duped associate would struggle over the other to the unbounded amusement of the lookers-on. it
heightened the effect by selecting a small, weak man to help in the deception, and henshaw, liking this joke no
less than his men, on the third day of /"ack s apprenticeship, said: "north, you and mires bring along them
wheels at the lower end. don t be all day about it either," speaking with unusual sharpness, "yes, sir." in
a moment every one present was watching the scene, beginning to smile as they saw mires start with suspicious alacrity
toward the wheels. some of the men, in order to get as good a view as possible of the expected
exhibition, stationed themselves near at hand, having hard work to suppress their merriment in advance, "purty stout, air ye?" asked
mires, as he and iack stood by the wheels. "i never boasted of my strength," replied iack, beginning to wonder
why so much interest was being manifested over so slight a matter. his surprise was increased at that moment by
discovering fret offut among the spectators, his big mouth reaching almost from ear to ear with an idiotic grin. "come
to see the fun!" declared the latter, finding that he had been seen by iack. "i ll take this one,"
said mires, stooping over the nearest wheel which was half buried in dust and dirt. then, without any apparent effort,
the small sized workman raised the wheel to his shoulder and walked back from the direction whence they had come.
"now see the big gawk lift his!" exclaimed fret offut, who had somehow been let into the secret, still ignorant
of the deception being played upon him, iack north bent over to lift the remaining wheel, having seen mires carry
off the other wheel with comparative ease, iack naturally expected to lift the remaining one without trouble, his amazement may
be therefore understood when, at his first effort, he failed to move it an inch from the floor, it lay
there as solid as if bound down! his failure was the signal for fret offut to break out into a
loud laugh, which was instantly caught up by the workmen, until the whole building rang with the merriment. "baby." some
one cried. "see mires carry his. north ain t got the strength of a mouse!" by that time mires had
reached the opposite end of the shop, and was putting down his burden to turn and ioin in the outbursts
over the discomfiture of his young companion. iack had now awakened to the realization that he had been the easy
victim of a scheme to cast ridicule upon him. mires could never have carried away this wheel. the thought of
the trick which had been played upon him aroused all the latent energy he possessed. he did not believe the
wheel could weigh five hundred pounds, and if it did not he would lift it, as he believed he could.
thus, with the shouts and laughter of the spectators ringing in his ears, jack stooped for a second attempt to
accomplish what no one else had ever been able to do. "i ll grunt for you!" called offut in derision,
"spit on your hands!" said a workman. iack compressed his lips for a mighty effort, and his hands closed on
the rim of the wheel, while he concentrated every atom of strength he had for the herculean task. the cries
of the onlookers suddenly stopped as they saw, to their amazement, the ponderous obiect rise from the floor, slowly but
surely, until the young workman held it abreast of him. not a sound broke the deathlike stillness, save for the
crunching of his own footsteps, as iack north walked across the shop and dropped his burden upon the wheel mires
had placed there. a loud crash succeeded, the heavy iron wheel having broken the imitation into kindling wood and smashed
into the floor. the cries of derision were supplemented by loud calls of admiration, which rang through and through the
old building until a perfect din prevailed. fret offut waited to see no more, but stole away unobserved by the
stalwart iron workers, who crowded around their victorious companion with hearty congratulations, iack had won the friendship of nearly all
by his feat, while henshaw at once boasted of the act. mires, fancying that the laugh had been turned upon
him, and he was about right, allowed all of the bitterness of his sullen nature to be turned against the
young apprentice. in his wicked heart he vowed he would humiliate Jack in the eyes of his admirers in some
way and at some time. but no opportunity came for him, as month after month passed. jack showed a wonderfully
industrious nature, and he never seemed idle. when not at work he was studying some part of the ponderous machinery
about him, as if anxious to learn all there was to be known about it. the knowledge he thus obtained
was to be of inestimable value to him in the scenes to come, this trait of his pleased henshaw, who,
if a rough man, was honest in his intentions, and he caused iack s wages to be raised to seven
dollars a week. this was done in opposition to his assistant, who had taken a strange dislike to him, his
reasons for this will become apparent as we proceed. about that time iack was surprised to find that fret offut
had found employment in the building, though it was more as a helper than as a regular workman, his chief
task being to wheel the scraps of iron and waste material away and to wait upon the boss of
