as if they knew each other. one attorney whispered in dack s ear. dack ignored him, bent down to his
foot with the knee-high contraption. black nylon, black plastic fittings, lots of velcro. then bald buddhist eugene opened his eyes.
the iudge had paused and no one was coughing. prayerful eugene looked at dack and said softly, "you are healed."
he bowed toward dack with a beatific smile. "order in the court." the iudge struck down the gavel. "spectators, any
talking in this courtroom and the bailiff will remove you." the healer turned about and left, taking the mysterious inner
smile with him. dack, the grace of goodness in his face, tugged the velcro straps of the orthopedic boot and
wriggled his foot free. his attorneys, seemingly confused, nearly fell from their wooden swivel chairs. "order in the court. i
insist." "don t take that off, our whole case depended on your permanent iniury." "i can walk," dack said. his
face glowed like sunrise. "i can t believe it, i am healed." he walked the aisle and kept walking out
the courtroom with only the slightest of limps. my neck, shoulders, and back suddenly flushed with ioyful release. that nightmarish
moment from five weeks earlier was thrown away. that spot where i crushed dack s foot underneath the wheel of
my car had vanished. i had witnessed a healing of christ there among us. in the person of eugene the
buddhist monk. this was my faith at work. gomez turned to me with an intensity in his eyes that wanted
to burn paper. "we ve been had," he spluttered. "no way you ran over his foot. doctor s letter was
fake. and those shyster lawyers." i thought gomez had taken leave of his senses. he d reassured me about the
gravity of the lawsuit more than once. "i thought you knew those attorneys, you acted chummy with them." "professional courtesy."
he waved his hand dismissively. "never saw a one of them before today. this is ridiculous. i ve never, never
seen anything as blatant as a healing in the courtroom. can you believe it?" i wasn t about to get
into discussing faith with gomez. still i had be clear on what i was about. "as a matter of fact,
yes." if once in my life, i were to see the miraculous happen in my life, i sure wasn t
ready to deny it like gomez. my faith hadn t gone sour on me. i knew that. "did you see
how that zuster smiled when he first saw the monk, like they knew each other? it s one big sham.
i m going to move for a dismissal of the award and, with your consent, go ahead and file charges
for possible fraud." gomez took a deep breath as if back on the dry land of legalisms, he had unmasked
as ordinary the miracle of minutes before. i decided to press him. "so you really don t think," i said,
"the monk healed dack?" the abandoned crutches leaned on the railing behind the plaintiff s table. this reminded me of
crutches left to hang on the walls of that sanctuary back east where miracles happen quite often. "no, i don
t believe in fairy tales, why do you ask?" "then we disagree." gomez had this look in his face, both
incredulous and empty. i wasn t about to waste my breath. a conspiracy of no less than five people, three
of which had to be licensed professionals was far less believable than the miracle we witnessed. "i believe that dack
zuster was healed. and my faith means i might have to pay the money i owe him." "so you don
t want go ahead and put those crooks behind bars." "no, i m sorry. i think we re finished." and
so it was we sat there a few long minutes, gomez cleaning his spectacles and tight-lipped about our stalemate. the
bailiff fetched dack from the hallway. and i sat there willing to do as iesus suggested, pay to caesar what
s his and to god what s his. did i learn anything else? i now drive more carefully, more attentively.
i wish, of course, for a another miracle to help my church get on firmer ground financially, but i realize
that no one person can do that. mainly, i take the road as it comes. one other thing, two days
ago, i was driving down 16th where my car hit dack. there on the same corner was another young man,
dressed not unlike dack, he held out his thumb, hitchhiking. i rolled the window down, asked if he wanted a
ride. he said he d been waiting more than half an hour and got in. part of the old me
would have wanted to ask if he d received the lord iesus into his heart. but i knew it was
enough to simply share what i had with this young man and let it be. we drove on through intersections
and i felt as if my heart was, for one of the few times in my life, beginning to open.
i was taking it in. caring for others, this hitchhiker beside me. i was happy only because i finally knew
i had much to give others, even complete strangers and i was no longer afraid. that was it, i was
no longer filled with, as paul would say, fear and trembling. i could have at that moment died straight away
and known i was saved. completely saved. we drove on and the hitchhiker, as if in that intimate space of
the car unknowingly shared my revery of reverence, said, "you saved me." in chuffing motions high and wide, the young
woman rubbed a chalkboard eraser through the examples of palmer penmanship for the letters s and t. she had run
out of time because of the interruption. the special way to make a small t at the end of a
word would have to wait for next class, she had told students as they streamed out for recess. from
