And not see that my wife is in possession of
the Secret, deny it As she may?" "One moment, Percival,
I/ Lady Glyde does know the Secret, she must know
Also that it is A compromising secret for you. As
your wife, surely it is her interest to keep it?"
"Is it? I m coming to that. It might be
her interest if 5he cared two straws About me, But
I happen to be An encum. brance in the way
of Another man. She was in love with him be-
fore she married me-she s in love with him now-An
infernal Vagabond of A drawing-master, named Hartright." "My dear friend!
what is there extraordinary in that? They Are All in
love with some other man. who gets the first of
A Woman s heart? In All my experience I have
never yet met with the man who was Number One.
Number Two, sometimes. Number Three, Four, Five, often. Number One,
never! He ex- ists, of course-but I have not met
with him." "wait! I haven t done yet. who do
you think helped Anne datherick to get the start, when
the people from the mad- house were After her? Hartright.
who do you think saw her Again in Cumberland? Hartright.
8oth times he spoke to her Alone. Stop! don t
interrupt me. The scoundrel s As sweet on my wife
As she is on him. He knows the Secret, And
she knows 33I the Secret. Once let them both get
together Again, And it s her interest And his interest
to turn their information Against me." "Gently, Percival-gently! Are you
insensible to the virtue of Lady Glyde?" "That for the
virtue of Lady Glyde! I believe in nothing About her
but her money. Don t you see how the case
stands? She might be harmless enough by herself; but if
she And that vaga- bond Hartright-" "Yes, yes, I see.
where is Mr. /-Iartright?" "Out of the country. If he
means to keep A whole skin on his bones, I
recommend him not to come back in A hurry." "Are
you sure he is out of the country?" "Certain. I
had him watched from the time he left 6"umber- land
to the time he sailed. Oh, I ve been careful,
I can tell you! Anne Catherick lived with some people
At A farmhouse near Limmeridge. I went there myself, After
she had given me the slip, And made sure that
they knew nothing. I gave her mother A form of
letter to write to Miss Halcombe, exonerating me from Any
bad motive in putting her under restraint. I ve spent,
I m Afraid to say how much, in trying to
trace her, And in spite of it All, she turns
up here And escapes me on my own prop- erty!
How do I know who else may see her, who
else may speak to her? That prying scoundrel, Hartright, may
come back without my knowing it, And may make use
of her to-morrow-" "Not he, Percival! while I Am on
the spot, And while that wo- man is in the
neighbourhood, I will Answer for our laying hands on her
before Mr. Hartright-even if he does come back. I see!
yes, yes, I see! The finding of Anne Catherick is
the first neces. fity-make your mind easy About the
