and rapaciously. They are dangerous predators. One does not compromise with a tiger or accommodates a snake.‘ Excerpts from the Archives of

the Narcissism List - Part 26 - Sam Vaknin http://samvak.tripod.com/archive26.html '9 am not a physical type, so 9 will never harm a

woman physically. But, wherever possible to inflict pain and to drive a woman to the limits of her sanity - 9 do

a good /‘ob of it.‘ Excerpts from the Archives of the Narcissism List - Part 26 - Sam Vaknin http://samvak.tripod.com/archive.?6.html ‘Narcissists are

sadists and inverted narcissists are both rare and the perfect match.‘ Excerpts from the Archives of the Narcissism List - Part 26

- Sam Vaknin http://samvak.tripod.com/archive26.html ‘Narcissists abhor and dread getting emotionally intimate. The cerebral ones regard sex as a maintenance chore, something they
have to do in order to keep their Source of Secondary Supply. The somatic narcissist treats women as obiects and sex as

a means to obtaining Narcissistic Supply.‘ Narcissists and women - Sam Vaknin http://samvak.tripod.com/faq79.html ‘Moreover, many narcissists tend to engage in FRUSTRAT9NG behaviours
towards women. They refrain from having sex with them, tease them and then leave them, resist flirtatious and seductive behaviours and so

on. Often, they invoke the existence of a girlfriend/fiancée/spouse for boyfriend/etc. - male and female are interchangeable in my texts) as the

reason why they cannot have sex/develop a relationship. But this is not out of loyalty and fidelity in the empathic and loving

sense. This is because they wish (and often succeed} to sadistically frustrate the interested party.‘ Narcissists and women - Sam Vaknin http://samvak.tripod.com/faq7.9.html
‘Torture is the ultimate act of perverted intimacy, The torturer invades the victim s body, pervades his psyche, and possesses his mind.

Deprived of contact with others and starved for human interactions, the prey bonds with the predator. Traumatic bonding , akin to the

Stockholm Syndrome, is about hope and the search for meaning in the brutal and indifferent and nightmarish Universe of the torture cell.‘

The Psychology of Torture - Sam Vaknin http://samvak.tripod.com/torturepsychology.html ‘The narcissist is shallow, a pond pretending to be an ocean. He likes to

think of himself as a Renaissance man, a tlack of all trades. A narcissist never admits to ignorance 9N ANY F9Er_D!‘ How

to Recognise a Narcissist? - Sam Vaknin http://samvak.tripod.com/faq58.html ‘The best - really, the only way - a narcissist can help himself is

by applying to a mental health professional. Even then, sadly, the prognosis and the healing prospects are dim. 9t seems that only

time can bring on a limited remission (or, at times, aggravation of the condition}. Therapy can tackle the more pernicious aspects of

this disorder. 9t can help the patient to adapt to his condition, to accept it and to learn to conduct a more

functional life with it, Learning to live with one s disorder - is a great achievement and the narcissist should be happy

that even this modicum of success is, in principle, possible,‘ can a Narcissist Help Himself? - Sam Vaknin http://samvak,tripod,com/faq31,html ‘The False Self

is misrepresented by the narcissist as his True Self. The narcissist is saying, in effect: 9 am not who you think that

9 am. 9 am someone else. 9 am that (False) Self. Therefore, 9 deserve a better, painless, more considerate treatment . The

False Self, thus, is a contraption intended to alter the attitude of the (human) environment towards the narcissist.‘ The Dual Role of

the False Self - Sam Vaknin http://samvak.tripod.com/faq48.html ‘The narcissist is possessed of an uncanny ability to psychologically penetrate others. Often, this gift

is abused and put at the service of the narcissist s control freakery and sadism. The narcissist uses it liberally to annihilate

the natural defences of his victims by faking unprecedented, almost inhuman, empathy. This capacity is coupled with the narcissist s ability to

frighteningly imitate emotions and their attendant behaviours. The narcissist possesses emotional resonance tables . He keeps records of every action and reaction,

every utterance and consequence, every datum provided by others regarding their state of mind and emotional makeup. From these, he then constructs

a set of formulas, which often result in impeccably and eerily accurate renditions of emotional behaviour. This can be enormously deceiving.‘ The

Dual Role of the False Self - Sam Vaknin http://samvak.trip0d.com/faq48.html ‘People have a need to believe in the empathic skills and basic

good-heartedness of others. 8y dehumanising and obiectifying people - the abuser attacks the very foundations human interaction. This is the alien aspect

of abusers - they may be excellent imitations of fully formed adults but they are emotionally absent and immature. Abuse is so

horrid, so repulsive, so phantasmagoric - that people recoil in terror. 9t is then, with their defences absolutely down, that they are

the most susceptible and vulnerable to the abuser s control. Physical, psychological, verbal and sexual abuse are all forms of dehumanisation and

objectification.‘ what is Abuse? - Sam Vaknin http://samvak.tripod.com/abuse.html ‘The reason narcissism was under-reported and healing over-stated was that therapists have been fooled
by smart narcissists. Most narcissists are expert manipulators and they learned how to deceive the therapists. You can see this very often

in prison.‘ Treatment Modalities and Therapies - Sam Vaknin http://samvak.tripod.com/faq77.html ‘The source of all the narcissist s problems is the foreboding sensation

that human relationships invariably end in humiliation, betrayal, pain and abandonment. This belief is embedded in them during their very early childhood

by their parents, peers, or role models.‘ The world of the Narcissist - Sam Vaknin http://samvak.tripod.com/msla8.html ‘Question: How do narcissists react to

being humiliated? Answer: As healthy human beings do - only more so, much more so.‘ Narcissistic Humiliation - Sam Vaknin http://samvak.tripod.com/faq53.html ‘Question:

can you provide us with some statistics? How often does bullying occur? How many people are affected? Answer.’ Surveys of bullying in

the United kiingdom indicate that between 72-50 percent of the workforce experience bullying. Statistics from the U./<. National workplace Bullying Advice Line

reveal that around 20 percent of cases are from the education sector, 72 percent are from healthcare, 10 percent are from social

services and around 6 percent from the voluntary, charity, not-for-profit sector. After that, calls come from all sectors both public and private,

with finance, media, police, postal workers and other government employees featuring prominently. Enquiries from outside the United icingdom - notably the United

States, Canada, Australia and ’/reland - show similar patterns with the caring professions topping the list of bullied workers.‘ Bully at work

- 9nterview with Tim Field by Dr. Sam Vaknin http://www.upi.com/view.cfm?Story9D=25022002-100833-5315r ‘when unable to secure normal Narcissistic Supply - adulation, recognition, fame, celebrity,
notoriety, infamy, affirmation, or mere attention - the narcissist resorts to abnormal Narcissistic Supply, He tries to obtain his drug - the

thrills, the good feeling that comes with Narcissistic Supply - by behaving recklessly, by succumbing to substance abuse, or by living dangerously,‘

The Adrenaline Funkie - Sam Vaknin http://www.suite101.com/article.cfm/npd/99584 ‘when confronted with a boring, routine existence - with a chronic and permanent inability to
secure Narcissistic Supply and excitement - these people compensate by inventing thrills where there are none.‘ The Adrenaline iunkie - Sam Vaknin
http://www.suite107.com/article.cfm/npd/99584 ‘Question: How does the narcissist treat his past Sources of Narcissistic Supply? Answer: One should be careful not to romanticise the
narcissist. His remorse is always linked to fears of losing his sources. Narcissists have no enemies. They have only Sources of

