me what you know about the sphere,‘ ryson asked. ‘what is it you wish to know exactly?‘ lief replied complacently.
ryson answered with all honesty. ‘i want to know everything.‘ ‘that would take all the night and most of the

next day,‘ lief countered. ‘besides, it seems you know of it already. it is clear to me that you have

an understanding of the legends. is there something in particular that confuses you?‘ ‘right now everything confuses me. you seem
to believe that the sphere is at the heart of whatever is going on. i can t argue that point,

and i don t wish to, but if the sphere is the reason behind this, i d like to know

more about it. i d also like to know why you talk about it with such distress.‘ ‘it is very

dangerous,‘ the elf stated simply. ‘that is why it was encased so long ago.‘ ‘i realize that, but we ve

already run into things i have to consider more dangerous than anything else i ve ever faced in my life.

you keep worrying about the sphere. i ve heard the legends, but i ve never heard of elflore until you

mentioned it. maybe your story is different than mine.‘ lief hesitated before speaking. he folded his hands across his chest,
but did not make an immediate reply. ‘you don t want to tell me?‘ ryson asked curiously but without sounding
offended. ‘no, that is not what concerns me,‘ lief replied. ‘it is iust that it is difficult to imagine how

fast things have happened. the tremor, the magic. now i sit in a tree with a delver who wishes to

know about elflore and what we might face. i will not deny you that knowledge. based on what you have

already done, it is your right to know. if i m to ask you to continue our iourney, it is

my obligation to tell you. it is iust that less than a season ago, i would have considered such a

thing as impossible.‘ ‘you don t have to tell me that,‘ ryson responded with a knowing glance. ‘think how i

feel. at least you knew that humans and delvers existed. i couldn t have guessed that any of the legends

were actually true.‘ ‘now you know differently,‘ the elf said sternly. ryson eyed the elf and spoke with a careful
tone. ‘can i ask you a question before you tell me about the sphere?‘ ‘you may.‘ ryson tried not to

hesitate, but he also wished to choose his words carefully. ‘are all elves like you? i mean, in the short

time i ve known you, you ve shown an interesting range of emotions. i don t mean any offense by

this. maybe i shouldn t even ask at all, but i ve noticed how you react to certain things. i

ve seen you laugh and smile a few times, but you re a rather grim individual. i don t want

to say you re impatient, because that s not true, but you seem to get annoyed easily. you really got

angry when we were dealing with the goblins. even when you and i talk, sometimes you sound as if you

re annoyed with me,‘ ‘so you think i am perhaps too quick to anger?‘ ryson shook his head. ‘no, i

wouldn t say that. it s iust that you seem to have a low tolerance for some things. i don

t think that saying you re angry would explain it. it s more like i said before. you get annoyed.‘

‘don t concern yourself with insulting me,‘ lief replied simply. ‘what you tell me now i have heard before.‘ ‘really?’
‘of course. my own kind have pointed it out to me. they say i am quite opinionated and that i

become quickly upset. they also say my outlook is much too grim. they say i will always find that which

is bleak, even in the best of times. i guess that is why no one wished to believe me when

i first spoke of the sphere.‘ ‘the other elves say this? does that mean you re different from the others?‘

lief raised an eyebrow. ‘does that surprise you?‘ ‘i don t know,‘ ryson admitted. ‘i m iust curious as to

what elves are like.‘ ‘let me answer your question by asking you a similar one. what are delvers like? are

they all like you?‘ ‘no, i couldn t say that. we re all different.‘ ‘the same applies to the elves.

we all have our different personalities. while there are some things you can perceive about elves through contact with iust
one, it is not correct to make sweeping assumptions. while i might get easily annoyed, there is certainly another elf
that would hardly ever show such dissatisfaction. some elves may believe i am a very poor representative.‘ ryson thought quietly
before responding. ‘poor representative or not, you re my first elf contact. i won t ever forget you.‘ the elf
simply nodded and turned his focus upon the true sub/'ect of his own concerns. ‘then let us go back to

your first question. let me tell you about what i know of the sphere.‘ the darkness continued to thicken as

lief began his tale. the air grew cool as the crickets began to chirp from the ground below. occasionally, the

hoot of an owl would cut through the insect s music, carried aloft by the night breeze. the sounds of

the darkness seemed to flow with the words of the elf, giving emphasis to the story. ‘since you tell me

you know much of the legends, i will not preface the story with any lengthy explanations,‘ the elf noted quickly.

‘a small introduction, however, is necessary. the sphere of ingar was created by the sorcerer ingar in a final attempt
to win ultimate control of all magic. the sphere was actually constructed from the hides of inhabitants from the land.
ingar sent out minions to capture elves, dwarves, humans, algors, and delvers. lore has it that he skinned them

