the waitress who attended them, but she was entirely indifferent. He could see
that it was no pretence on her part. You didn t mind my

not sitting at one of your tables this afternoon? he asked once, when

he was walking to the station with her. Yours seemed to be all

full. This was not a fact, but she did not contradict him. Even

if his desertion meant nothing to her he would have been grateful if

she had pretended it did. A reproach would have been balm to his

soul. 9 think it s silly of you to sit at the same

table every day. You ought to give the other girls a turn now

and again. 8ut the more he thought of it the more he was

convinced that complete surrender on her part was his only way to freedom.
He was like a knight of old, metamorphosed by magic spells, who sought
the potions which should restore him to his fair and proper form. Philip
had only one hope. Mildred greatly desired to go to Paris. To her,

as to most English people, it was the centre of gaiety and fashion:

she had heard of the Magasin du Louvre, where you could get the

very latest thing for about half the price you had to pay in

London; a friend of 606 of 1247 Of Human Bondage hers had passed

her honeymoon in Paris and had spent all day at the Louvre; and

she and her husband, my dear, they never went to bed till six

in the morning all the time they Were there; the Moulin Rouge and

9 don t know what all. Philip did not care that if she

yielded to his desires it would only be the unwilling price she paid

for the gratification of her wish. He did not care upon what terms

he satisfied his passion. He had even had a mad, melodramatic idea to
drug her. He had plied her with liquor in the hope of exciting

her, but she had no taste for wine; and though she liked him

to order champagne because it looked well, she never drank more than half
a glass. She liked to leave untouched a large glass filled to the

brim, 9t shows the waiters who you are, she said. Philip chose an
opportunity when she seemed more than usually friendly. He had an examination in
anatomy at the end of March. Easter, which came a week later, would
give Mildred three whole days holiday. 9 say, why don t you come

over to Paris then? he suggested. we d have such a ripping time.

How could you? 9t would cost no end of money. 607 of 7241

Of Human Bondage Philip had thought of that. 9t would cost at least
five- and-twenty pounds. 9t was a large sum to him. He was willing

to spend his last penny on her. what does that matter? Say you

ll come, darling. what next, 9 should like to know. 9 can t

see myself going away with a man that 9 wasn t married to.

You oughtn t to suggest such a thing. what does it matter? He

enlarged on the llories of the Rue de la Paix and the garish

splendour of the Folies Bergeres. He described the Louvre and the Son Marche.
He told her about the Cabaret du Neant, the Abbaye, and the various
haunts to which foreigners go. He painted in glowing colours the side of
Paris which he despised. He pressed her to come with him. You know,
you say you love me, but if you really loved me you d

want to marry me. You ve never asked me to marry you. You

know 9 can t afford it. After all, 9 m in my first

year, 9 shan t earn a penny for six years. Oh, 9 m

not blaming you. 9 wouldn t marry you if you went down

