and as a last re?ource he was to take refuge in granite house, where, the lift once raised, he would
be in safety. cyrus harding, gideon spilett, herbert, and pencroft were to repair to the corral, and if they did
not find ayrton, search the neighboring woods. at six o clock in the morning, the engineer and his three companions
had passed creek glycerine, and neb posted himself behind a small mound crowned by several dragon trees, on the left
bank of the stream. the colonists, after leaving the plateau of prospect heights, immediately took the road to the corral.
they shouldered their guns, ready to fire on the slightest hostile demonstration. the two rifles and the two guns had
been loaded with ball. the wood was thick on each side of the road and might easily have concealed the
convicts, who owing to their weapons would have been really formidable. the colonists walked rapidly and in silence. top preceded
them, ?ometimes running on the road, ?ometimes taking a ramble into the wood, but always quiet and not appearing to
fear anything unusual. and they could be sure that the faithful dog would not allow them to be surprised, but
would bark at the least appearance of danger. cyrus harding and his companions followed beside the road the wire which
connected the corral with granite house. after walking for nearly two miles, they had not as yet discovered any explanation
of the difficulty. the posts were in good order, the wire regularly extended. however, at that moment the engineer observed
that the wire appeared to be slack, and on arriving at post no. I4, herbert, who was in advance stopped,
exclaiming, "the wire is broken!" his companions hurried forward and arrived at the spot where the lad was standing. the
post was rooted up and lying across the path. the unexpected explanation of the difficulty was here, and it was
evident that the despatches from granite house had not been received at the corral, nor those from the corral at
granite house. "it wasn t the wind that blew down this post," observed pencroft. "no," replied gideon spilett. "the earth
has been dug, up round its foot, and it has been torn up by the hand of man." "besides, the
wire is broken," added herbert, showing that the wire had been snapped. "is the fracture recent?" asked harding. "yes," answered
herbert, "it has certainly been done quite lately." "to the corral." to the corral!" exclaimed the sailor. the colonists were
now half way between granite house and the corral, having still two miles and a half to go. they pressed
forward with redoubled speed. indeed, it was to be feared that ?ome serious accident had occurred in the corral. no
doubt, ayrton might have sent a telegram which had not arrived, but this was not the rea?on why his companions
were 5I0 uneasy, for, a more unaccountable circumstance, ayrton, who had promised to return the evening before, had not reappeared.
in short, it was not without a motive that all communication had been stopped between the corral and granite house,
and who but the convicts could have any interest in interrupting this communication? the settlers hastened on, their hearts oppressed
with anxiety. they were sincerely attached to their new companion. were they to find him struck down by the hands
of those of whom he was formerly the leader? ?oon they arrived at the place where the road led along
the side of the little stream which flowed from the red creek and watered the meadows of the corral. they
then moderated their pace ?o that they should not be out of breath at the moment when a struggle might
be necessary. their guns were in their hands ready cocked. the forest was watched on every side. top uttered sullen
groans which were rather ominous. at last the palisade appeared through the trees. no trace of any damage could be
seen. the gate was shut as usual. deep silence reigned in the corral. neither the accustomed bleating of the sheep
nor ayrton s voice could be heard. "let us enter," said cyrus harding. and the engineer advanced, while his companions,
keeping watch about twenty paces behind him, were ready to fire at a moment s notice. harding raised the inner
latch of the gate and was about to push it back, when top barked loudly, a report ?ounded and was
responded to by a cry of pain. herbert, struck by a bullet, lay stretched on the ground. at herbert s
cry, pencroft, letting his gun fall, rushed towards him. "they have killed him!" he cried. "my boy! they have killed
him!" cyrus harding and gideon spilett ran to herbert. the reporter listened to ascertain if the poor lad s heart
was still beating. "he lives," said he, "but he must be carried" "to granite house? that is impossible!" replied the
engineer. "into the corral, then!" said pencroft. "in a moment," said harding. and he ran round the left corner of
the palisade. there he found a convict, who aiming at him, sent a ball through his hat. in a few
seconds, before he had even time to fire his second barrel, he fell, struck to the heart by harding s
dagger, more sure even than his gun. during this time, gideon spilett and the sailor hoisted themselves over the palisade,
leaped into the enclosure, threw down the props which supported the inner door, ran into the empty house, and ?oon,
poor herbert was lying on ayrton s bed. in a few moments, harding was by his side. on seeing herbert
senseless, the sailor s grief was terrible. he ?obbed, he cried, he tried to beat his head against the wall.
neither the engineer nor the reporter could calm him. they themselves were choked with emotion. they could not speak. however,
they knew that it depended on them to rescue from death the poor boy who was suffering beneath their eyes.
gideon spilett had not passed through the many incidents by which his life had been checkered without acquiring ?ome
