back, she addressed herself to a point slightly above matthew s head. i recognized the technique she had sometimes used
with piff. in a kindly but firm tone she said: chocky, you really must let matthew be quiet and rest.
he isn t at all well, chocky, and he needs to go to sleep. so please go away and leave
him alone now. perhaps, if he s better tomorrow, you can come back then. see? said matthew. you ve got
to clear out, chocky, so that i can get better. he seemed to listen. yes, he said decisively. it appeared
to work. in fact, it did work. he lay back again, and visibly relaxed. she s gone, he announced. that
s fine. now you can settle down, said mary. and he did. he wriggled into a comfortable position and lay
quiet. presently his eyes closed. in a very few minutes he was fast asleep. mary and i looked at one
another. she tucked his bedclothes closer, and put the bell-push handy. we tiptoed to the door, turned off the room
light, and went downstairs. well, i said, what do you think of that? aren t they astonishing? said mary. dear,
oh dear, it does very much look as if this family is landed with another piff . i poured us
some sherry, handed mary hers, and raised mime. here s to hoping it turns out to be less of a
pest than the last one, i said. i set down the glass, and looked at it. you know, i told
her, i can t help feeling there s something wrong about this. as i said before, piffs aren t unusual
with little girls, but i don t remember hearing of an eleven-year-old boy inventing one... it seems out of order,
somehow... i must ask someone about it... mary nodded agreement. yes, she said, but what strikes me as even odder
is -- did you notice? -- he doesn t seem to be clear in his own mind whether his chocky
is a him or a her. children are usually very positive about that. they feel it s important... i wouldn
t say the feeling of importance is entirely restricted to children, i told her, but i see what you mean,
and you re perfectly right, of course. it is odd... the whole thing s odd... matthew s temperature was down
the next morning. he picked up quickly. in a few days he was fully recovered. so too, apparently, was his
invisible friend, undiscouraged by the temporary banishment. now that chocky s existence was out of the bag -- and largely,
i was inclined to think, because neither mary nor i had displayed incredulity -- matthew gained enough confidence to talk
a little more freely about him/her. to begin with, at any rate, he/she seemed a considerable improvement on the original
piff, there was none of that business of him/her invisibly occupying one s chair, or feeling sick in teashops to
which piff had been so prone. indeed, chocky quite markedly lacked physical attributes. he/she appeared to be scarcely more than
a presence, having perhaps something in common with wordsworth s cuckoo, but with the added limitation that his/her wandering voice
was audible to matthew alone. there were days when matthew seemed to forget him/her altogether. unlike piff, he/she was not
prone to appearing any -- and everywhere, nor did he/she show any of piff s talent for embarrassment such as
a determined insistence on being taken to the lavatory in the middle of the sermon. on the whole, if one
had to choose between the two, my preference was decidediy in favour of chocky. mary was less certain. are we,
she suddenly demanded one evening, staring into the loops of her knitting with a slight squint, are we i wonder,
doing the right thing in playing up to this nonsense? i know you shouldn t crush a child s imagination,
and all that, but what nobody tells you is how far is enough. there comes a stage when it begins
to get a bit like conspiracy. i mean, if everyone goes around pretending to believe in things that aren t
there, how on earth is a child going to learn to distinguish what really is, from what really isn t.
careful, darling, i told her. you re steering close to dangerous waters. it chiefly depends on who, and how many,
believe what isn t really is. she nodded. then she went on: it d be a most unfortunate thing if
we found out on that we re helping to stabilize a fantasy-system that we ought to be trying to dispel.
hadn t we better consult a psychiatrist about it? he could at least tell us whether it s one of
the expectable things, or not. i m rather against making too much fuss about it, i told her. more inclined
to leave it for a bit. after all we managed to lose piff in the end, and no harm done.
i didn t mean send him to a psychiatrist. i thought just an enquiry on general lines to find out
whether it is unusual, or simply nothing to bother about. i d feel easier if we knew. i ll ask
around if you like, i said, i don t think it is serious. it seems to me a bit like
fiction -- we read our kind of fiction, children often make up their own, and live it. the thing that
does trouble me a bit about it is that this chocky seems to have entered the wrong age-group. i think
we ll find it will fade away after a bit. if it doesn t we can consult someone about it.
i wasn t, i admit, being quite honest when i said that. some of matthew s questions were puzzling me
considerably -- not only by their un-matthew-like character but because, now that chocky s existence was acknowledged, matthew did not
always present the questions as his own. quite frequently he would preface them with: chocky says he doesn t
