i don t earn enough. bridget s mum says we could live with her." he stopped there and iosef waited
to see if he would go on. when he didn t iosef said, "will you auction the house?" "detective," he
struggled for josef s name. "/"osef," iosef offered. "/"osef," he said, "the only thing i have." he corrected himself, reaching
out to touch his wife s shoulder, "we have, is our kids. there s an estate agent coming to look
around this afternoon, he s a friend of my boss s and he says he ll do it for free
and he ll really push for a good price at auction. he s gonna make sure everyone knows why we
re selling and that we need the money. we re gonna do it saturday and i can call the bank
man and he ll fix the money even though the bank is shut." mrs. collridge put down the bowl and
spoon and turned to face iosef. "i m -"0ff.V," iosef offered. "i know," she said, her eyes still full of
tears. "we think it s fantastic what you re doing," whitlock said. "we know you d do anything to get
bryan back. ?o would we, and believe me when i say we re doing everything we can. we re gonna
get this guy and nail his balls to the wall." ?omehoW, fosef thought, she made the words ?ound sympathetic and
threatening at the same time. he wondered what crisis management training was. they sat together in silence for a while.
"where is the pc we left on watch?" /"osef asked. "upstairs in the kid s bedroom," mr. collridge said. "he
said you told him to watch the street." "i did," iosef said and got up. "i ll just check in
on him." iosef found the pc sitting on the bed with a small pair of binoculars and a note pad.
"what ve you got?" he asked. "about twenty five .I0 far," the pc said. "can i have them?" the officer
tore several pages from his notebook. iosef added them to the pages he d got from the martins . "thanks,"
he said, "keep it up." they left the collridges and phoned bentworth on his mobile. he picked up on the
third ring. there was ?ome muffled talking in the background and the ?ound of a door. "go on," bentworth said,
"make it quick though i ve just stepped out of a meeting." "from what the parents say it looks like
the football scout is the prime suspect our end. what does the club say?" "they say their football scouts don
t work like that, almost no one s do," bentworth said, "and if we mention their name they ll sue,
?o don t." "did they come up with a picture yet?" "no," bentworth seemed agitated. "the artist drew two pictures
the boy described as a good likeness, but they Were totally different. i think the best we can reliably do
is white male 35 to 50. they re trying the kid now with photofit but we re not holding out
much hope." "shit," /osef said. "matches the profile though." "what re you doing now?" he asked. it was the question
iosef had hoped to answer with this call but hadn t. "we need to confirm ?omething with the football coach
then i suppose a trip to central park and a shit load of questions." "the football coach is the pe
teacher isn t he?" bentworth asked. "no luck with the picture then," whitlock said. "kid can t give a proper
description, keeps changing it." "you don t think he s lying though?" "nah, it s /"ust harder than it looks,"
iosef said. "what now?" whitlock asked. "it s a five minute walk from here to central park, shall we leave
the car here?" he asked. "yeah," whitlock said. "are we really gonna hang around the park the rest of the
afternoon asking questions?" "of course not," iosef said smiling. "/ust while i m figuring out the next step," "let s
take the car then." whitlock laughed holding out her hand, palm up. "looks like rain." after /ust twenty minutes in
the park it had started to rain. the few kids that were there went home ?o /"osef and whitlock retreated
to the car. /osef checked his watch. "i think probably the most productive thing we can do is pass the
martins and the beachams on the way in, go through those registration numbers. maybe we ll turn ?omething up." "okay,
anything s worth a try." it was after six by the time they d gone through the fifty or ?o
registration numbers collected. iosef drew the short straw and typed up their notes while whitlock looked. nothing appeared on more
than one list. when they d finished iosef fetched coffee from the canteen. ma?on hadn t appeared back in cid.
he d gone straight to the public appeal. iosef conceded that he was lead detective and should be there ?o
he grudgingly photocopied his notes and left the copy on ma?on s desk. "i don t know about you," /osef
said, "but i m starved." whitlock examined her coffee cup. "i ve got to go home," she said. "okay, i
ll see you here in the morning for briefing," iosef said. he wasn t actually sure he d been turned
down, because he hadn t actually asked, but they both knew he was going to. he decided she meant don
t ask , which was fine. she got up and headed for the door. "night mary," he said. "close," she
called, but he couldn t see her face. iosef sat at the desk for a long time, leaning back in
the chair his feet on the desk, his eyes on the ceiling. he fell asleep. iosef woke about nine slumped
across his desk. his cheek was wet and he couldn t even move his right arm. it fell lamely off
the desk as he sat up. he tried his fingers but they didn t move and checked his watch,
