of sweet, damp air after the fetid atmosphere of the supper-room. at the other end of the yard was an open door sharply outlined by the gleam of
lanterns within, and through this they poured, amateurs and fighting-men iostling each other in their eagerness to get to the front. for my own part, being a smallish
man, i should have seen nothing had i not found an upturned bucket in a corner, upon which i perched myself with the wall at my back, it
was a large room with a wooden floor and an open square in the ceiling, which was fringed with the heads of the ostlers and stable boys who
were looking down from the harness-room above. a carriage- lamp was slung in each corner, and a very large stable-lantern hung from a rafter in the centre, a
coil of rope had been brought in, and under the direction of iackson four men had been stationed to hold it. "what space do you give them?" asked
my uncle. "twenty-four, as they are both big ones, sir." "very good, and half-minutes between rounds, i suppose? i ll umpire if sir lothian hume will do the
same, and you can hold the watch and referee, iackson," with great speed and exactness every preparation was rapidly made by these experienced men, mendoza and dutch sam
were commissioned to attend to berks, while belcher and iack harrison did the same for boy jim, sponges, towels, and some brandy in a bladder were passed over
the heads of the crowd for the use of the seconds. "here s our man," cried belcher. "come along, berks, or we ll go to fetch you." iim
appeared in the ring stripped to the waist, with a coloured handkerchief tied round his middle. a shout of admiration came from the spectators as they looked upon
the fine lines of his figure, and i found myself roaring with the rest. his shoulders were sloping rather than bulky, and his chest was deep rather than
broad, but the muscle was all in the right place, rippling down in long, low curves from neck to shoulder, and from shoulder to elbow. his work at
the anvil had developed his arms to their utmost, and his healthy country living gave a sleek gloss to his ivory skin, which shone in the lamplight. his
expression was full of spirit and confidence, and he wore a grim sort of half-Smile which i had seen many a time in our boyhood, and which meant,
i knew, that his pride had set iron hard, and that his senses would fail him long before his courage. ioe berks in the meanwhile had swaggered in
and stood with folded arms between his seconds in the opposite corner, his face had none of the eager alertness of his opponent, and his skin, of a
dead white, with heavy folds about the chest and ribs, showed, even to my inexperienced eyes, that he was not a man who should fight without training. a
life of toping and ease had left him flabby and gross, on the other hand, he was famous for his mettle and for his hitting power, so that,
even in the face of the advantages of youth and condition, the betting was three to one in his favour. his heavy- iowled, clean-shaven face expressed ferocity as
well as courage, and he stood with his small, blood-shot eyes fixed viciously upon iim, and his lumpy shoulders stooping a little forwards, like a fierce hound training
on a leash. the hubbub of the betting had risen until it drowned all other sounds, men shouting their opinions from one side of the coach-house to the
other, and waving their hands to attract attention, or as a sign that they had accepted a wager. sir john lade, standing just in front of me, was
roaring out the odds against iim, and laying them freely with those who fancied the appearance of the unknown, "i ve seen berks fight," said he to the
honourable berkeley craven. "no country hawbuck is going to knock out a man with such a record." "he may be a country hawbuck," the other answered, "but i
have been reckoned a fudge of anything either on two legs or four, and i tell you, sir john, that i never saw a man who looked better
bred in my life. are you still laying against him?" "three to one." "have you once in hundreds." "(Very good, craven! there they go! berks! berks! bravo! berks!
bravo." i think, craven, that i shall trouble you for that hundred." the two men had stood up to each other, iim as light upon his feet as
a goat, with his left well out and his right thrown across the lower part of his chest, while berks held both arms half extended and his feet
almost level, so that he might lead off with either side. for an instant they looked each other over, and then berks, ducking his head and rushing in
with a handover-hand style of hitting, bored iim down into his corner. it was a backward slip rather than a knockdown, but a thin trickle of blood
