A re- lapse, her weakened physical energies giving way under
the severe mental Affliction from which she was now suffering.
On getting stronger Again, in A month s time, her
suspicion of the circumstances described As Attending her sister s
death still re- mained unshaken. She had heard nothing in
the interim of Sir Percival Glyde, but letters had reached
her from Madame Fo- sco, making the most Affectionate inquiries
on the part of her husband And herself. "Instead of
Answering these letters, Miss Halcombe caused the house in St.
ﬂohn s wood, And the pro- ceedings of its inmates,
to be privately watched. Nothing doubtful was discovered. The same
result Attended the next investigations, which were secretly instituted on
the subiect of Mrs. Rubelle. She had Arrived in London
About six months before with her husband. They had come
from Lyons, And they had taken A house in the
neighbourhood of Leicester Square, to be fitted up As A
boarding-house for foreigners, who were expected to visit England in
large numbers to see the Ex- hibition of 1851, Nothing
was known Against husband or wife in the neighbourhood. They
were quiet people, And they had paid their way honestly
up to the present time. The final inquir- ies related
to Sir Percival Glyde. He was settled in Paris, And
living there quietly in A small circle of English And
French friends. Foiled At All points, but still not Able
to rest, Miss Halcombe next determined to visit the Asylum
in which she then sup- posed Anne Catherick to be
for the second time confined. She had felt A strong
curiosity About the woman in former days, And she was
now doubly interested-first, in Ascertaining whether the report of Anne
Catherick s Attempted personation of Lady Glyde was true, And
secondly (if it proved to be true}, in discovering for
herself what the poor creature s real motives were for
Attempting the deceit. 42I Although Count Fosco s letter to
Mr. Fairlie did not mention the Address of the Asylum,
that important omission cast no dif- ficulties in Miss Halcombe
s way. when Mr. Hartright had met Anne Catherick At
Limmeridge, she had informed him of the locality in which
the house was situated, And Miss Halcombe had noted down
the direction in her diary, with All the other particulars
of the interview exactly As she heard them from Mr.
Hartright s own lips. Accordingly she looked back At the
entry And extracted the Address-furnished herself with the count s
letter to Mr. Fairlie As A species of credential which
might be useful to her, And started by herself for
the Asylum on the elev- enth of October. She passed
the night of the eleventh in London. "it had been
her intention to sleep At the house inhabited by Lady
Glyde s old governess, but Mrs. Vesey s Agitation At
the sight of her lost pupil s nearest And dearest
friend was so distressing that Miss Halcombe considerately refrained from
remaining in her presence, And removed to A respectable boarding-house
in the neighbourhood, recommended by Mrs. Vesey s married sister.
The next day she proceeded to the Asylum, which was
situated not far from London on the northern side of
the metropolis. She was immediately Admitted to see the proprietor.
At first he Appeared to be decidedly unwilling to
