throats or relieve the traumas they d iust experienced. at length the miller party passed trough the doors only to

face a new spectacle. they found themselves in a huge room which brought back vivid memories of another party--a very
recent one. for they were surrounded by the same splendor they d seen in the great ballroom of the movie.

the rich, light colored wainscoted paneling was adorned with guilt baroque carvings. opulent chandeliers glittered and danced in their own
light. some felt a moment of uneasiness as they stepped into the opulent room. this quickly passed when they caught

sight of the refreshment tables, heavily laden with all sorts of gourmet delights. carved ice-statues stood guard over dishes of
lobster, crab, caviar. exotic cheeses and meats of all kinds caught both the eye and appetite of the crowd. it

was apparent to this sophisticated assembly they “were being treated to the best of food and attention. most were impressed.
in fact one congressman commented to roger bracken: ‘where on earth did they get all this? i haven t seen

such a lavish array of food since the inaugural over three years ago. must be black market.‘ the legislator didn

t see the sharp look senator bracken gave him at his last remark. as the millers approached the table, a

voice called out: ‘oh, doctor---mrs. miller?‘ hurrying toward them as well as he could manage through the large crowd was

the movie buff. mr. amos parker. sharon who had been wearing a rather anxious expression, brightened when she saw him.
‘mr. parker, i see you survived the ordeal,‘ she laughed. ‘yes, my dear mrs. miller...although i must admit it was

a bit touch and go there for a while‘ he appeared a bit breathless from his struggle to reach them

and made an effort to catch his breath as he bubbled over with excitement. his eyes were shining with delight.

‘but, have you ever seen such a movie?! i do think it was incredible--the most impressive filmever‘ his eyes! once

again kirk was stricken by the something unknown that lurked behind parker s eyes. the feeling was even stronger now

than the first time. perhaps it was the brightness of the ballroom lights or the weird experience they d iust

been through. still, kirk felt there was more to this mr. parker than he wanted them to know. this troubled

kirk for a moment. he never suspected another human being without reason. there was something out of date about parker

s impeccable appearance. not iust his tuxedo. there was also an old-fashioned sort of continental air about him. and the

way he spoke. one couldn t say it was actually shakespearian, but there was a lilt and cadence to his

phrasing that made one think of another age or culture. sharon and mr. parker were still enthusing about the movie.

suddenly their conversation stopped and they were looking at him. kirk realized he was expected to make some comment. he
felt awkward at moments like this. small talk was nearly impossible and he remained uncomfortable in the presence of the
urbane gentleman. 'i...uh...the the film s concept is really amazing. part of my work deals with optics. the sophistication of
the production indicates an outstanding grasp of the medium. i would certainly like to see their equipment.‘ ‘perhaps it can
be arranged, replied parker. ‘i m also rather curious about it.‘ he turned his attention to sharon once more. they

excluded kirk and again began to toss about movie trivia as they had earlier. kirk smiled to himself. for such

an intelligent woman, sharon did en/'oy the simple thing of life. he looked at his watch. it was ten thirty--twenty-five
minutes since the start of the intermission, when would the movie resume? mrs, Jackson stood nearby, holding a conservative plate
of goodies and delicately trying everything. she d iust dipped a cracker into a small sample of what looked like

black beads. she took a taste and made a wry face. kirk had been watching her with delight, and commented.

‘caviar. it has an odd taste, doesn t it?‘ ‘it most certainly does,‘ agreed the black woman with a smile.

‘personally, ah prefer black-ahd peas. but the way things are nowadays, ah spect they re as spensive as this cayveear

and bout as rare. kirk laughed and nodded in agreement. henry iackson spied roger bracken in the crowd and pushed

his way though the throng to reach him. bracken was about to speak to john shipley when the black under

secretary ioined them. ‘senator bracken, excuse me, i m henry jackson, undersecretary to the secretary of agriculture.‘ ‘well--ere, how do
you do---ah, henry?‘ roger bracken turned on his famous smile and extended his hand in a firm greeting. henry iackson

was so overwhelmed to be in the company of the famous senator from new york and the legendary senate maiority

leader, he failed to notice bracken s eyes were not smiling, in fact bracken resented the intrusion. half knowing the

reason for it, the younger senator was trying to think of a smooth way to delay their meeting. ‘henry, this

is senator john shipley of virginia. john, henry iackson.‘ the southern senator returned iackson s handshake with genuine warmth. though
many southerners were still notoriously bigoted, he was not one of them. his whole philosophy of statesmanship was based on
the equality of men, regardless of color. iackson was flattered by the attention of two such powerful political leaders, but
then he remembered the reason for his being there and plunged right in. ‘senator bracken, the secretary sends his greetings
and regrets not being able to attend tonight. ‘yes, he missed quite a show. ah, i wonder--henry, i would like

to talk to you more about the department. perhaps we could get together after the movie tonight.‘ henry iackson was
somewhat taken aback by this. he really wanted to deliver his message and then query the senator about an open

position to further his career. but not wishing to make any waves, he acquiesced and backed off. ‘of course

