this quit! simple question. when the people received no satisfactory answer from Panditii, the man said, 'Pandit/'i, you have come
back after ten year long study at Banaras, but you failed to answer my simple question. You have wasted the

money of your father.’ The helpless Pandit stared blank in the face of the man, Panditji returned home with a

heavy heart. He could not sleep at night. He pondered deeply in his mind, 'Today 9 have suffered great disgrace;

how should 9 show my face in the city now. 9t will be proper for me to go back to

Banaras and find Solution to this question.' Lo! At dawn Pandit/Ii left home and set out for kiashi (BanaI'aS). while

he was on his way to Banaras on foot the evening fell. He took shelter on a platform in front

of a well-built house in a village. After supper he spread his bedding on the platform and lay down there.

Due to great fatigue he succumbed to sound sleep as soon as he lay down. He did not wake up

and lay there for a long time even after sunrise in the morning. The house, on the platform of which

Pandit/'i slept belonged to a prostitute, when the prostitute came downstairs in the morning, she saw the hale and hearty
handsome young man sleeping on the platform. She was bewitched and dumbfounded. She woke him up and asked, ‘who are
you? where do you hail from? what is your destination and what for are you going there?’ Panditii replied, '9

come from Samtapur and am on my way to /<ashi.' At this the prostitute spoke, 'Sir, you told me everything

but 9 got no reply as to why you are going to i<ashi? Please tell me.' Panditii said, '0 Gentle

lady! Don t ask this question to me. 9 am pained at heart by this.’ when the prostitute again insisted,

Panditii said, 'Now listen, 9 stayed and studied at /cashi for ten years. After completing my education, 9 came back

home. As soon as 9 returned to the city, the people gave me a grand reception. Unfortunately that very day

during a question-answer program the people put to me a question, 'what is the root cause of sin?’ 9 failed

to answer this question. My heart was filled with remorse. This is why 9 am returning to /cashi for further

study.’ The prostitute was very wise. She said, 'Pandit/'i, today 9 am lucky to entertain a learned guest like you

at my house. Please go ahead only after taking mid-day meals at my house today. 9 shall prepare food for

you with my own hands. Till then please take bath and say your morning prayers and perform worship.' Hearing this
Panditii was in a fix. After a short pause Panditii asked the prostitute, 'who are you and what is your

profession?’ Prostitute - 9 am a human being. 9 earn my bread and butter through prostitution. Panditii - Curse it.

0 God! what a great sinner 9 am! 9 have slept in the house of an unholy prostitute. 9 will

have to repent for this sin. Prostitute - O dignified Brahman! 9 am also a human being like you. You

consider me mean and hateful only for being a prostitute. Once 9 was also a young damsel of a dignified

family, but the oppressions of your human society have forced me to resort to this sinful life. Today you are

my guest, 9 shall not let you go without taking meals. Panditii - O wretched lady.’ what do you say?

9 am a holy Brahman - a Pandit. How can 9 take meals at your house? Prostitute - No, No,

Panditii! Meals you must take at my house. See there is a well in the compound of my house. Draw

the water and prepare food yourself and then take meals. You are a Brahman, so after meals 9 shall give

you a present of five hundred rupees as well. As soon as Panditii came to know about a present of

five hundred rupees, he was overpowered with greed. He at once got ready to prepare the food himself. when the

prostitute saw that the food was ready, she came down and prayed to Panditii with folded hands - '0 supreme

Panditii! 9 have committed great sins in my life. 9 pray to you to purify me as well.' Panditii -

How is that possible? Prostitute - 9f you accept two morsels of food from my hands, 9 shall be purified.

Pandit/‘i - curse it, why do you say this? How can 9, a Brahman, eat two morsels from the hands

of a prostitute? Prostitute - Panditii, Please be merciful and do so. 9 shall offer you five hundred rupees more,

At least accept one morsel from my hands and make me chaste. Panditii agreed to take food from the hands

of the prostitute out of greed for money. As soon as she brought her hand forward with a morsel to

feed it to Panditii, the prostitute at once dropped the morsel on the ground and slapped the Brahman severely in

the face saying, '0 fool! You are going to kzashi to solve a quite simple problem. 9 have answered your

question. The greed with which you easily got ready to give up your religious faith and vows has overpowered you

and is the root cause of all sins.' Someone has rightly observed: 'Faith is like a bird, that sings when

the at dawn is still engulfed in darkness.' On receiving a satisfactory solution for his problem from the prostitute, Pandit/°i
returned home. From the above example we learn that the more greedy a person is, the more disgrace he has

to suffer. To be over- greedy is a sin; greed is regarded as the root cause of sin. Hence, in

order to attain the virtue of supreme contentment every living soul should discard the vicious tendency of greed and tread
the path of religion. The great poet Reidhu has described the virtue of supreme contentment or purity (Uttama Shaucha) thus:
Sauch ii dhamangu tam ii amagaun bhinrganu uvaugmu Farmarnr vinrasanru tiiagpyasnru jhaiiyi ah visi ii dhu Dham sauchu hoi manr
sudhiyai, dham sauchu venr dhanr gidhien Dham sauchu kasaai ahavain, dham sauchu nr lippi pavain Dham sauchu lohu vaiantau dham
sauchu sutab pahi iantau Dham sauhuvanbh vay dharnri, dham sauchu meydath nrarnri Dham sauchu iinraim manrai, dham sauchu sagunr anrumanrai
Dham sauchu sal key chae, dham sauchu ii nrimalbhae 1. The virtue of contentment is a part and parcel of

religion; it is enthusiastic; it excels materialism; it gives utility to life; it relieves one from old age and

