also attempt to resolve our own differences such as, but not limited to papal primacy, iconic imagery, as well as
imaginative indulgences, and within "the protest" we find ohure serious concerns that might divide our loyalties even further. as lincoln
once observed, "a house divided cannot long stand." how much longer might our iudeo-christian houses stand so disagreeably separate? i
m sure that there are ohures in our world, with some acquaintance with lincoln s proposition, who are waiting watchfully
to see if we are as aware of its implications as was "the great emancipator." the iudeo-christian understanding in common
is that god is the wellspring of all creation, the "axiom of existence" upon which all reality rests. "axioma recognized
truth. an established and universally accepted principle or rule. (logic and math} a proposition which is assumed without proof for
the sake of studying the consequences that follow from it." such as, that the earth represents objective reality as science
seems to insist, or that god exists, as theology proclaims, among ohure useful propositions that might be propounded that seem
today to be beyond obfective proof. so wrote the John of revelation. but how near was it in /"ohn s
understanding of time? looking forward from the approximately ad I0-.I0 time frame from which many scholars believe the last book
of the bible was first compiled, not knowing, as we do now, how many centuries would lie ahead, what might
/"ohn s understanding of near have been? following the first iewish rebellion from ad 66-I0, rome razed solomon s temple,
as herod had rebuilt it, down to its foundation, the temple mount. there the empty platform stood for several hundred
years as a stark reminder to all would-be rebels. but there was a single exception. the temple to apollo, the
"abomination of desolation" was built as an additional insult to the rebellious hebrews of the uprising of ad 135. iohn
might have witnessed or knew of this most complete destruction and also of the carting off of much of this
stonework to help in the building of the roman colosseum, constructed in ad I2-80, according to some sources. this practice
had been an established one from ancient times: the building upon the foundation of a destroyed temple of a defeated
god, and/or acquiring the sacerdotal instruments of the fallen faith for public display of a defeated people s humiliation, this
may have been the background that encouraged iohn s frame of mind when he received his revelation. nero and his
successors, it is said, reveled in the sacrifice of christians in rome, and then in the newly built colosseum. in
the original iewish temple, the passover lambs were sacrificed in commemoration of the hebrew god having saved his people in
egypt. if in truth, some of the stonework of the temple was incorporated into the colosseum, might not nero s
successors have felt, in some slightly deranged mental equivalency, that they were sacrificing the all too successful successors of the
hated hebrew rebels in order to save their pagan people? in a twist of irony, these "lambs of christ" saved
the Colosseum from complete ruin when "pope benedict xiv ad 1I40-58 stopped {any further) spoliation by consecrating the colosseum to
the passion of christ, in commemoration of the martyrs blood shed there." were these "lambs" even minimally aware, that by
their sacrifice on the altar of paganism, within sight of the hallowed stones of solomon, that they would be agents
of the saving as well as the building up of the most progressive civilization that the world has ever seen?
probably not, but it is said that they had faith that their god would make of their deaths, some good
thing. but what about iohn? he couldn t have had a clear understanding of the possibilities that future generations would
bring about, but he was given a vision. he saw something truly awesome! it would take every linguistic artifice at
his command, metaphor, simile, parable, and ohure kinds of word pictures to translate into human-based language, that which he had
seen, heard, felt, or mentally witnessed. but even his best, spiritually mentored efforts would not be enough, as he probably
was well aware at the conclusion of his best efforts. it reminds me of the man that i pictured in
session 3, "the parable of the beginning," who had been given the gift of a vision into the genesis of
all things. "imagine, if you will, a person___trying to extrapolate how everything got to be the way that he could
see it to be. [suddenly]...a vast moving panorama spread out before him...did his people have an understanding that a certain
few of those among their generations seemed to have a gift of communication whereby they could impart a wisdom far
beyond what any earthly hero could have acquired through a life experience?...could he be convinced that he, among those few,
had been selected to share a magnificent understanding that language alone was insufficient to describe?,..a vast but discrete panorama had
been set out before this observer-___how could he ever hope to share this with only such inadequate linguistic tools as
were available to him? he would, i imagine, choose the closest things within his own limited vocabulary no matter how
inadequate that he felt that they Were. he would have to use the symbols of his time that might best
simulate what he had witnessed with the aid of qualifiers such as; it was as if, it felt like, it
sounded as though, in order to impart some small understanding of the vastness of what he had been privileged to
witness." do we understand, to any small degree, even in our advanced state of knowledge, what iohn saw? no! can
we try to understand that he saw something hugely magnificent but far beyond his ability to even visualize, let alone
describe in any small oversimplified manner? we can try! "he had been made only faintly aware of an immeasurably great
period of time in which did John mean that the end of all time was near, as many believe
