cleopatra in the inner room of the temple of horus, at philae. with such a record at the age of thirty-one, it was felt that a considerable career

lay before him, and no one was surprised when he was elected to the curatorship of the belmore street museum, which carries with it the lectureship at the

oriental college, and an income which has sunk with the fall in land, but which still remains at that ideal sum which is large enough to encourage an

investigator, but not so large as to enervate him. there was only one reason which made ward mortimer s position a little difficult at the belmore street museum,

and that was the extreme eminence of the man whom he had to succeed. professor andreas was a profound scholar and a man of european reputation. his lectures

were frequented by students from every part of the world, and his admirable management of the collection intrusted to his care was a commonplace in all learned societies.
there was, therefore, considerable surprise when, at the age of fifty-five, he suddenly resigned his position and retired from those duties which had been both his livelihood and
his pleasure. he and his daughter left the comfortable suite of rooms which had formed his official residence in connection with the museum, and my friend, mortimer, who
was a bachelor, took up his quarters there. on hearing of mortimer s appointment professor andreas had written him a very kindly and flattering congratulatory letter. i was
actually present at their first meeting, and i went with mortimer round the museum when the professor showed us the admirable collection which he had cherished so long.
the professor s beautiful daughter and a young man, captain wilson, who was, as i understood, soon to be her husband, accompanied us in our inspection. there were

fifteen rooms, but the babylonian, the syrian, and the central hall, which contained the /ewish and egyptian collection, were the finest of all. professor andreas was a quiet,
dry, elderly man, with a clean-shaven face and an impassive manner, but his dark eyes sparkled and his features quickened into enthusiastic life as he pointed out to

us the rarity and the beauty of some of his specimens. his hand lingered so fondly over them, that one could read his pride in them and the

grief in his heart now that they “were passing’ from his care into that of another. he had shown us in turn his mummies, his papyri, his rare

scarabs, his inscriptions, his iewish relics, and his duplication of the famous seven-branched candlestick of the temple, which was brought to rome by titus, and which is supposed
by some to be lying at this instant in the bed of the tiber, then he approached a case which stood in the Very centre of the hall,

and he looked down through the glass with reverence in his attitude and manner. ‘this is no novelty to an expert like yourself, mr. mortimer,‘ said he; ‘but

i daresay that your friend, mr. iackson, will be interested to see it,‘ leaning over the case i saw an object, some five inches square, which consisted of

twelve precious stones in a framework of gold, with golden hooks at two of the corners. the stones were all varying in sort and colour, but they were

of the same size. their shapes, arrangement, and gradation of tint made me think of a box of water-colour paints. each stone had some hieroglyphic scratched upon its
surface. ‘you have heard, mr. iackson, of the urim and thummim?‘ i had heard the term, but my idea of its meaning was exceedingly vague. ‘the urim and

thummim was a name given to the iewelled plate which lay upon the breast of the high priest of the iews. they had a very special feeling of

reverence for it--something of the feeling which an ancient roman might have for the sibylline books in the capitol. there are, as you see, twelve magnificent stones, inscribed
with mystical characters. counting from the left-hand top corner, the stones are carnelian, peridot, emerald, ruby, lapis lazuli, onyx, sapphire, agate, amethyst, topaz, beryl, and iasper.‘ i was
amazed at the variety and beauty of the stones. ‘has the breastplate any particular history?‘ i asked. ‘it is of great age and of immense value,‘ said professor

andreas, ‘without being able to make an absolute assertion, we have many reasons to think that it is possible that it may be the original urim and thummim

of solomon s temple. there is certainly nothing so fine in any collection in europe. my friend, captain wilson, here, is a practical authority upon precious stones, and

he would tell you how pure these are,‘ captain wilson, a man with a dark, hard, incisive face, was standing beside his fiancee at the other side of

the case. ‘yes,' said he, curtly, ‘i have never seen finer stones.‘ ‘and the gold-work is also worthy of attention. the ancients excelled in----'--he was apparently about to

indicate the setting of the stones, when captain wilson interrupted him. ‘you will see a finer example of their gold-work in this candlestick,‘ said he, turning to

