a supplementary repast. michel, utterly done up, did not answer. nicholl then tried to prepare some tea destined to help
the absorption of a dozen sandwiches. he first tried to get some fire, and struck a match sharply, what was
his surprise to see the sulphur shine with so extraordinary a brilliancy as to be almost unbearable to the eye.
from the gas-burner which he lit rose a flame equal to a /"et of electric light. a revelation dawned on
nicholl s mind. that intensity of light, the physiological troubles which had arisen in him, the overexcitement of all his
moral and quarrelsome faculties-- he understood all. "the oxygen!" he exclaimed. and leaning over the air apparatus, he saw that
the tap was allowing the colorless gas to escape freely, life-giving, but in its pure state producing the gravest disorders
in the system, michel had blunderingly opened the tap of the apparatus to the full. nicholl hastened to stop the
escape of oxygen with which the atmosphere was saturated, which would have been the death of the travelers, not by
suffocation, but by combustion. an hour later, the air less charged with it restored the lungs to their normal condition.
by degrees the three friends recovered from their intoxication; but they Were obliged to sleep themselves sober over their oxygen
as a drunkard does over his wine. when michel learned his share of the responsibility of this incident, he was
not much disconcerted. this unexpected drunkenness broke the monotony of the journey. many foolish things had been sald while under
its influence, but also quickly forgotten. "and then," added the merry frenchman, "i am not sorry to have tasted a
little of this heady gas. do you know, my friends, that a curious establishment might be founded with rooms of
oxygen, where people whose system is weakened could for a few hours live a more active life. fancy parties where
the room was saturated with this heroic fluid, theaters where it should be kept at high pressure; what passion in
the souls of the actors and spectators! what fire, what enthusiasm! and if, instead of an assembly only a whole
people could be saturated, what activity in its functions, what a supplement to life it would derive. from an exhausted
nation they might make a great and strong one, and i know more than one state in old europe which
ought to put itself under the regime of oxygen for the sake of its health!" michel spoke with so much
animation that one might have fancied that the tap was still too open. but a few words from barbicane soon
shattered his enthusiasm. "that is all very well, friend michel," sald he, "but will you inform us where these chickens
came from which have mixed themselves up in our concert?" "those chickens?" "yes." indeed, half a dozen chickens and a
fine cock were walking about, flapping their wings and chattering. "ah, the awkward things!" exclaimed michel. "the oxygen has made
them revolt." "but what do you want to do with these chickens?" asked barbicane. "to acclimatize them in the moon,
by /"ove!" "then why did you hide them?" "a joke, my worthy president, a simple ioke, which has proved a
miserable failure. i wanted to set them free on the lunar continent, without saying anything. oh, what would have been
your amazement on seeing these earthly-winged animals pecking in your lunar fields!" "you rascal, you unmitigated rascal," replied barbicane, "you
do not want oxygen to mount to the head. you are always what we were under the influence of the
gas; you are always foolish!" "ah, who says that we were not wise then?" replied michel ardan. after this philosophical
reflection, the three friends set about restoring the order of the projectile. chickens and cock were reinstated in their coop.
but while proceeding with this operation, barbicane and his two companions had a most desired perception of a new phenomenon.
from the moment of leaving the earth, their own weight, that of the proiectile, and the objects it enclosed, had
been subject to an increasing diminution. if they could not prove this loss of the projectile, a moment would arrive
when it would be sensibly felt upon themselves and the utensils and instruments they used. it is needless to say
that a scale would not show this loss; for the weight destined to weight the object would have lost exactly
as much as the object itself; but a spring steelyard for example, the tension of which was independent of the
attraction, would have given a just estimate of this loss. we know that the attraction, otherwise called the weight, is
in proportion to the densities of the bodies, and inversely as the squares of the distances. hence this effect: if
the earth had been alone in space, if the other celestial bodies had been suddenly annihilated, the proiectile, according to
newton s laws, would weigh less as it got farther from the earth, but without ever losing its weight entirely,
for the terrestrial attraction would always have made itself felt, at whatever distance. but, in reality, a time must come
when the proiectile would no longer be subject to the law of weight, after allowing for the other celestial bodies
whose effect could not be set down as zero. indeed, the projectile s course was being traced between the earth
and the moon. as it distanced the earth, the terrestrial attraction diminished: but the lunar attraction rose in proportion. there
must come a point where these two attractions would neutralize each other: the proiectile would possess weight no longer. if
the moon s and the earth s densities had been equal, this point would have been at an equal distance
between the two orbs. but taking the different densities into consideration, it was easy to reckon that this point would
be situated at 4I/60th: of the whole iourney, i.e., at I8,514 leagues from the earth. at this point, a body
having no principle of speed or displacement in itself, would remain immovable forever, being attracted equally by both orbs,
