gave way to the rocks at the base of the point. iohn mewes puffed along close at his heels, and

after him came the first mate, dick hawkins, unshaven but alert, musket at the ready. close behind strode tall edwin

spune, master s mate, a musket in each hand, followed by the rest. in all, some twenty of winston s

men had crossed the bay with him. he ordered the longboats beached, then called the men together and motioned for

quiet. ‘are all muskets primed?‘ ‘aye.‘ spurre stepped forward, holding his two muskets up as though for inspection. ‘an every
man s got an extra bandolier of powder an shot. we re ready for whatever the whoresons try.‘ he glanced

up the rise, puzzled, still not understanding why the captain had assembled them. but hugh winston liked having his orders
obeyed. ‘good.’ winston walked down the line. ‘spread out along the shore and wait. i m going up to see

what the shooting s about. iust stand ready till you hear from me. but if you see me fire a

pistol shot, you be up that hill like iack-be-nimble. is that clear?‘ ‘you mean us against all that bleedin lot

up there?‘ iohn mewes squinted toward the dark rise. ‘there s apt to be half their militia up there, cap

n, from the sound of it.‘ ‘did i hear you question an order, iohn.’ you know ship s rules. they

go for officers too.‘ he turned to the other men. ‘should we call a vote right here?‘ ‘god s life.‘

mewes pushed forward, remembering winston s formula for discipline on the defiance. he didn t even own a cat-o nine-tails,
the lash used by most ship captains for punishment. he never touched an offender. he always iust put trial and

punishment to a show of hands by the men-whose favorite entertainment was keelhauling any seaman who disobeyed captain s orders,
lashing a line to his waist and ducking him under the hull till he was half drowned. ‘i wasn t

doin no questioning. not for a minute. i must ve iust been mumbling in my sleep.‘ ‘then try and stay

awake. i in going up there now, alone. but if i need you, you d better be there, iohn. with

the men. that s an order.‘ ‘aye.‘ mewes performed what passed for a salute, then cocked his musket with a

flourish. winston loosened the pistols in his belt, checked the packet containing the sight bills and the other papers he

had brought, then headed directly up the rise. the approach to lookout point was deserted, but up the hill, behind

a new stack of logs, he could see the shadowy outline of a crowd. the barricade, no more than fifty

yards from the assembly room, was in the final stages of construction, as men with torches dragged logs forward. others,
militia officers, were stationed behind the logs with muskets and were returning pistol fire from the half-open doorway of the
assembly room. above the din he could hear the occasional shouts of beniamin briggs, who appeared to be in charge.

together with him were the members of the council and officers from their regiments. the command of the militia was
restricted to major landholders: a field officer had to own at least a hundred acres, a captain fifty, a lieutenant
twenty-five, and even an ensign had to have fifteen. on the barricade were straw-hatted indentures belonging to members of the
council, armed only with pikes since the Planters did not trust them with muskets. winston recognized among them many whom
he had agreed to take. the firing was sputtering to a lull as he approached. then briggs spotted him and

yelled out. ‘you d best be gone, sir. before someone in the assembly room gets a mind to put a

round of pistol shot in your breeches.‘ ‘i m not part of your little war.‘ ‘that you re decidedly not,

sir. so we ll not be requiring your services here tonight.‘ ‘what s the difficulty?‘ winston was still walking directly

toward them. ‘it s a matter of the safety of barbados. i ve said it doesn t concern you.‘ ‘those

indentures concern me. i don t want them shot.‘ ‘tell that to the assembly, sir. we came here tonight offering

to take dalby bedford under our care, peacefully. to protect him from elements on the island who re set to

disown parliament. but some of the hotheads in there mistook our peaceful purpose and opened fire on us.‘ ‘maybe they
think they can protect him better than you can.‘ another round of fire sounded from the doorway of the assembly

room and thudded into the log barricade. when two of the planters cursed and fired back, the door was abruptly

slammed shut. ‘it s the assembly that s usurped rightful rule here, sir, as tonight should amply show. when they

no longer represent the true interests of barbados.‘ briggs glared at him. ‘we re re-storing proper authority to this island,
long overdue.‘ ‘you and the council can restore whatever you like. i m /'ust here to take care of my

indentures, before you manage to have some of them killed.‘ ‘they re not yours yet, sir. the situation s changed.

we re not letting them go whilst the island s unsettled.‘ ‘the only unsettling thing i see here are all

those muskets.‘ he reached into the pocket of his ierkin and lifted out the leather packet containing the sight drafts.

‘so we re going to make that transfer, right now. ‘well, i m damned if you ll have a single

man, this is not the time agreed.‘ briggs looked around at the other members of the council. behind them the

crowd of indentures had stopped work to listen. ‘the sight bills are payable on demand. we ve settled the terms,

and i m officially calling them in.‘ winston passed over the packet. ‘you ve got plenty of witnesses. here re

the sight bills. as of now, the indentures are mine.‘ he pulled a sheaf of papers from the other

