bride and groom were standing together now, and they began to circle the fire while the women standing nearby sang
a monotonous, repetitive song. hawksworth counted seven turns of the fire. then they seated themselves and the priest placed a
red dot on the forehead of man and wife. ‘they ll feast tonight, and then the groom will return to

his village.‘ vasant rao spurred his mount to catch up with the caravan. ‘later she and her family will go

there for more ceremonies. after that the groom may not see her again for several years, until the day her

father decides she s ready for the gauna, the consummation of the marriage. i didn t see my bride again

for two years.‘ ‘what happened then?‘ ‘she came to my village for a few days and stayed in the women

s quarters-the men and women sleep apart in these villages-and i had to go there and try to find her

cot. after that she went back home and it was several months later before i saw her again. then she

came back, for a longer time. finally she moved to my village, but by then i was nineteen and soon

after i left on a campaign. she stayed with my younger brother while i was gone, and when i returned,

she was with child. who can say whether it was mine or his? but none of it matters, for she

died in childbirth.‘ he spurred his horse past the line of carts. ‘let s try to make the river before

sundown.‘ hawksworth couldn t believe what he had heard, and he whipped his mount to catch up. ‘your brother kept
your wife while you were away?‘ ‘of course. i don t know how it is here, but in the part

of india where i was born, brothers normally share each other s wives. i used to go to my older

brother s house when he was gone and visit his wife. she expected it and would have been upset if

i hadn t come to her.‘ vasant rao was puzzled by hawksworth s surprise. ‘don t brothers share one another

s wives in england?‘ ‘well, not. . . usually. i mean . . . no. hell no. it s damned

close to incest. the truth is a husband would have grounds to Call out a man he caught with his

wife. and especially a brother.‘ ‘ call him out, captain? what does that mean?‘ ‘a duel. with swords. or maybe

pistols.‘ vasant rao was incredulous. ‘but what if a man goes away on a Campaign? his wife will grow frustrated.
hindus believe a woman has seven times the sexual energy of a man. she would start meeting other men in

the village if a man didn t have a brother to keep her satisfied. in the village where i grew

up, if a man and woman met together by chance in the forest, and they had the same caste, we

all assumed they would make the most of the opportunity. so it s better for the honor of the family

if your brothers care for your wife. it s an important duty for brothers. and besides, as long as a

woman attends to her own husband s needs, what does it matter if his brother enioys her also?‘ hawksworth found
himself astonished. ‘how does . . . i mean, what about this brother s own wife? what does she think

about all this?‘ ‘if her husband wants to visit his brothers wives, what should she care? it s normal, she

ll also find ways to meet her husband s brothers for the same purpose. women married to brothers often try

to send each other away on errands, in order to en/'oy the other s husband. so wives have no reason

to complain. in fact, if a woman returns to her own village for a visit, she will probably seek out

some of the men she knew when she was young and en/'oy them, since her husband is not around and

no one in her own village would tell him. hindus in the villages don t lock away their women the

way the muslims do, captain hawksworth, and because they re free to enjoy whoever they wish, they aren t frustrated
and unhappy the way muslim women are. surely your england is an advanced country where women have the same freedom.‘
hawksworth puzzled for a minute before trying to answer. the truth is there s a big difference between what s

said and what s done. with chastity praised from the pulpits and whores the length of london. and highborn ladies
thronging the playhouses, ready to cuckold their husbands with any cavalier who ll give them a look. how can i
explain it? ‘i guess you d say upper-class women have the most freedom to take lovers. usually young gallants or
soldiers, and no one is surprised if her husband makes full use of his serving wench,‘ ‘are these soldiers and

serving women from a lower caste?‘ ‘well, we don t exactly have . . .‘ hawksworth paused for a moment.

‘actually i guess you could say they re a lower caste, in a way.‘ vasant reined in his mount and

inspected hawksworth for a moment in disgust. ‘please excuse me if i say yours must be a very immoral country.
captain. such a thing would never happen in india. no raiput would touch the body of a low caste. it

would be pollution.‘ ‘you don t care what your women do? all that matters is who they do it with?‘

hawksworth suddenly realized he found it all too absurd to believe. it sounds like another tale of the indies. concocted
to entertain credulous seamen. ‘all right, then, what about your own wife? did she have other men besides your brothers?‘
‘how would i know?‘ vasant rao waved his hand, dismissing the question as insignificant, ‘i suppose it s possible. but
after she died i decided i d had enough of wives and women. i took a vow of chastity.

