voices of animals, birds and insects, murmuring up from all the broad valley, then gradually sinking to deep repose, many
never to wake again. and the span of his life, from the boyhood which he could recall so vividly here
among these children, seemed brief to him as a summer s day, only a part of a mighty whole made
up of the innumerable lives, the many generations, of his family, his own flesh and blood, come out of a
past he could never know, and going on without him now, branching, dividing, widening out to what his eyes would
never see. vaguely he pictured them groping their way, just as he himself had done. it seemed to roger that
all his days he had been only entering life, as some rich bewildering thicket like this copse of birches here,
never getting very deep, never seeing very clearly, never understanding all. and so it had been with his children, and
so it was with these children of edith s, and so it would be with those many others-always groping, blundering,
starting-children, only children all. and yet what lives they were to lead, what toys and revelations and disasters would be
theirs, in the strange remote world they would live in-"my flesh and blood that i never shall know." but the
stars were quiet and serene, the meadows and the forests on the broad sweep of the mountain side took on
still brighter, warmer hues. and there was no gloom in these long good-byes. ______________________________________ __ on a frosty night in september,
he left the farm to go to the city. from his seat in the small automobile roger looked back at
the pleasant old house with its brightly lighted windows, and then he turned to george by his side: "we re
in good shape for the winter, son." but george did not get his full meaning. [.?8I]at the little station, there
were no other passengers. they walked the platform for some time. then the train with a scream came around the
curve. a quick grip on george s hand, and roger climbed into the car. inside, a moment later, he looked
out through the window. by a trainman with a lantern, george stood watching, smiling up, and he waved his hand
as the train pulled out. the next morning on his arrival in town, roger went to his office, he had
little cause for uneasiness there, for twice in the summer he had come down to keep an eye on the
business, while iohn had taken brief "vacations at a seaside place nearby. the boy had no color now in his
cheeks; as always, they were a sallow gray with the skin drawn tight over high cheek bones; his vigor was
all in his eyes. but here was a new fohn, nevertheless, a successful man of affairs. he had on a
spruce new suit of brown, no cheap ready-made affair but one carefully fitted to conceal and soften his deformity. he
was wearing a bright blue tie and a cornflower in his buttonhole, and his sandy hair was sleekly brushed, he
showed roger into his private room, a small place he had partitioned off, where over his desk was a motto
in gold: "this is no place for your troubles or mine." "lord, but you ve got yourself fixed up fine
in here," said roger. fohn smiled broadly, "and you re looking like a new man, /"ohnny," "i had a great
time at the seashore. learned to sail a boat alone. what do you think of this chair of mine?" and
john complacently displayed the ingenious contrivance in front of his desk, somewhat like a bicycle seat. it was made of
steel and leather pads. "wonderful," said roger. "where d you ever pick it up?" "i had it made," was the
grave reply. "when a fellow has got up in life enough to have a stenographer, it s high time he
was sitting down." "£28I]let s see you do it." iohn sat down. "now how is business?" roger asked. "great. since
the little slump we ad in august it has taken a new start-and not only war business, at that-the old
people are sending in orders again. i tell you what it is, mr. gale, this country is right on the
edge of a boom!" and the junior member of the firm tilted triumphantly back in his chair. with the solid
comfort which comes to a man when he returns to find his affairs all going well, roger worked on until
five o clock, and then he started for his home. deborah had not yet come in, and a deep silence
reigned in the house. he looked through the rooms downstairs, and with content he noticed how little had been altered.
his beloved study had not been touched. on the third floor, in the large back room, he found iohn comfortably
installed. there were gay prints upon the walls, fresh curtains at the windows, a mandolin lying on a chair. and
roger, glancing down at the keen glad face of his partner, told himself that the doctor who had said this
lad would die was a fool. "these doctors fool themselves often," he thought. deborah and allan had the front room
on the floor below. roger went in, and for a moment he stood looking about him. how restful and how
radiant was this large old~fashioned chamber, so softly lighted, waiting, through a passageway lined with cupboards he went into his
room at the back. deborah had repapered it, but with a pattern so similar that roger did not notice the
change. he only felt a vague freshness here, as though even this old chamber, too, were making a new start
in life. and he felt as though he were to live here for years. slowly he unpacked his trunk and
took a bath and dressed at his leisure. then he heard deborah s voice at the door. "come in, come
in!" he answered. "[2I0]why, father! dearie." deborah cried "oh, how well you re looking, dad.-" and she kissed him
