one little kindness? she Asked. Yes, in- deed, I Answered, any kindness in
my power I shall be glad to show you. Then let me pin
your brooch on for you, now I have found it. Her request was
so unexpected, Marian, And she made it with such extraordinary eagerness, that I
drew back A step or two, not well knowing what to do. Ah!
she said, your mother would have let me pin on the brooch. There
was something in her voice And her look, As well As in her
mention- ing my mother in that reproachful manner, which made me Ashamed of
my distrust. I took her hand with the brooch in it, And put
it up gently on the bosom of my dress. You knew my 282
mother? I said. was it very long Ago." have "I ever seen you
be- fore? Her hands were busy fastening the brooch: she stopped And pressed
them Against my breast. You don t remember A fine spring day At
Limmeridge, she said, and your mother walking down the path that led to
the school, with A little girl on each side of her? I have
had nothing else to think of since, And I remember it, You were
one of the little girls, And I was the other. Pretty, clever Miss
Fairlie, And P"§or dazed Anne Catherick were nearer to each other then than
they Are now! " "Did you remember her, Laura, when she told you
her name?" "Yes, I remembered your Asking me About Anne (atherick At Limmeridge,
And your saying that she had once been con- sidered like me." "what
reminded you of that, Laura?" "SHE reminded me. while I was looking At
her, while she was Very close to me, it came over my mind
suddenly that we were like each other! Her face was pale And thin
And weary-but the sight of it startled me, As if it had been
the sight of my own face in the glass After A long illness.
The dis- covery-I don t know why-gave me such A shock, that I
was perfectly incapable of speaking to her for the moment." "Did she seem
hurt by your silence?" "I Am Afraid she was hurt by it, You
have not got your mother s face, she said, or your mother s
heart. Your mother s face was dark, And your mother s heart, Miss
Fairlie, was the heart of An Angel. I Am sure I feel kindly
towards you, I said, though I may not be Able to express it
As I ought. why do you call me Miss Fairlie?- Because I love
the name of Fairlie And hate the name of Glyde, she broke out
violently. I had seen nothing like madness in her before this, but I
fancied I saw it now in her eyes. I only thought you might
not know I was mar. fied, I said, remembering the wild letter she
wrote to me At Limmeridge, And trying to quiet her. She sighed bitterly,
And turned Away from me. Not know you were married? she re- peated,
I Am here BECAUSE you Are married. I Am here to make Atonement
to you, before I meet your mother in the world beyond the grave.
She drew farther And farther Away from me, till she was out of
the boat-house, And then she watched And listened for A little while. when
she turned round 283 to speak Again, instead of coming back, she stopped
where she was, looking in At me, with A hand on each side
of the en- trance. Did you see me At the lake last night?
she said. Did you hear me following you in the Wood? I have
been waiting for days together to speak to you Alone-I have left the
only friend I have in the world, Anxious And frightened About me-I have
risked being shut up Again in the mad-house-And All for your sake,
