yawls at calcutta or madras which would serve our turn well. do you bring one over. we shall engage to get aboard her by night, and if you
will drop us on any part of the indian coast you will have done your part of the bargain. " if there were only one, he said. "
none or all, i answered. we have sworn it. the f0ur of us must always act together. " you see, morstan, said he, small is a man of
his word. he does not flinch from his friend. i think we may very well trust him. " it s a dirty business, the other answered. yet, as
you say, the money would save our commissions handsomely. " well, small, said the major, we must, i suppose, try and meet you, we must first, of course,
test the truth of your story. tell me where the box is hid, and i shall get leave of absence and go back to india in the monthly
relief-boat to inquire into the affair. " not so fast, said i, growing colder as he got hot. i must have the consent of my three comrades. i
tell you that it is four or none with us. " nonsense! he broke in. what have three black fellows to do with our agreement? " black or
blue, said i, they are in with me, and we all go together. "well, the matter ended by a second meeting, at which mahomet singh, abdullah khan, and
dost akbar were all present. we talked the matter over again, and at last we came to an arrangement. we were to provide both the officers with charts
of the part of the agra fort and mark the place in the wall where the treasure was hid. maior sholto was to go to india to test
our story. if he found the box he was to leave it there, to send out a small yacht provisioned for a voyage, which was to lie off
rutland island, and to which we were to make our way, and finally to return to his duties. captain morstan was then to apply for leave of absence,
to meet us at agra, and there we were to have a final division of the treasure, he taking the major s share as well as his own.
all this we sealed by the most solemn oaths that the mind could think or the lips utter. i sat up all night with paper and ink, and
by the morning i had the two charts all ready, signed with the sign of four,--that is, of abdullah, akbar, mahomet, and myself. "well, gentlemen, i weary you
with my long story, and i know that my friend mr. iones is impatient to get me safely stowed in chokey. i ll make it as short as
i can. the villain sholto went off to india, but he never came back again. captain morstan showed me his name among a list of passengers in one
of the mail- boats very shortly afterwards. his uncle had died, leaving him a fortune, and he had left the army, yet he could stoop to treat five
men as he had treated us. morstan went over to agra shortly afterwards, and found, as we expected, that the treasure was indeed gone. the scoundrel had stolen
it all, without carrying out one of the conditions on which we had sold him the secret. :-from that day i lived only for vengeance. i thought of
it by day and i nursed it by night. it became an overpowering, absorbing passion with me. i cared nothing for the law,--nothing for the gallows. to escape,
to track down sholto, to have my hand upon his throat,--that was my one thought. even the agra treasure had come to be a smaller thing in my
mind than the slaying of sholto, "well, i have set my mind on many things in this life, and never one which i did not carry out. but
it was weary years before my time came. i have told you that i had picked up something of medicine. one day when dr. somerton was down with
a fever a little andaman islander was picked up by a convict-gang in the woods. he was sick to death, and had gone to a lonely place to
die. i took him in hand, though he was as venomous as a young snake, and after a couple of months i got him all right and able
to walk. he took a kind of fancy to me then, and would hardly go back to his woods, but was always hanging about my hut. i learned
0. little of his lingo from him, and this made him all the fonder of me. "tonga--for that was his name--was a fine boatman, and owned a big,
roomy canoe of his own. when i found that he was devoted to me and would do anything to serve me, i saw my chance of escape. i
talked it over with him. he was to bring his boat round on a certain night to an old wharf which was never guarded, and there he
