If it be a house dog, the Dru/" Nasu rushes forth, O Spitama Zarathushtralshe goes as far as the seventh
and defiles the six. I If it be a Vohunazga dog, the Dru/" Nasu rushes forth, O Spitama Zarathushtra!she goes
as far as the sixth and defiles the five. If it be a Tauruna dog, the Dru/" Nasu rushes forth,
0 Spitama Zarathushtra! she goes as far as the fifth and defiles the four. . . . Those clothes shall
serve for their coverings and for their sheets. . . . III. 10 O Maker of the material world, thou
Holy One! what part of his bedding and pillow does the Dru/" Nasu defile with corruption,infection, and pollution? 11 Ahura
Mazda answered: The Dru/" Nasu defiles with corruption,infection, and pollution the upper sheet and the inner garment. 12 O Maker
of the material World, thou Holy One! Can that garment be made clean, 0 holy Ahura Mazda! that has been
touched by the carcass of a dog or the corpse of a man? 13 Ahura Mazda answered: It can, 0
holy Zarathushtra! How so? If there be on the garment seed, or blood, or dirt, or vomit,the worshippers of Mazda
shall rend it to pieces, and bury it under the ground. I4 8ut if there be no seed [on the
garment], nor blood, nor dirt, nor vomit, then the worshippers of Mazda shall wash it with gomez. I5 If it
be leather, they shall wash it with gomez three times,they shall rub it with earth three times, they shall wash
it with water three times, and afterwards they shall expose it to the air for three months at the window
of the house. If it be woven cloth, they shall wash it with gomez six times,they shall rub it with
earth six times, they shall wash it with water six times, and afterwards they shall expose it to the air
for six months at the window of the house. 16 The spring named Ardvi Sura, O Spitama Zarathushtra! that spring
of mine, purifies the seed of males, the womb of females,the milk of females. 1I O Maker of the material
world, thou Holy One! can those clothes,when once washed and cleansed, ever be used either by a Zaotar,or by a
Havanan, or by an Atare-vakhsha, or by .I Fargard I : Purity laws a Frabaretar, or by an Abered, or
by an Asnatar, or by a Rathwishkar, or by a Sraosha-varez,or by any priest, warrior, or husbandman? 18 Ahura Mazda
answered: Never can those clothes, even when washed and cleansed, be used either by a Zaotar, or by a Havanan,
or by an Atare-vakhsha, or by a Frabaretar, or by an Abered, or by an Asnatar, or by a Rathwishkar,
or by a Sraosha-varez, or by any priest, warrior, or husbandman. 1I But if there be in a Mazdean house
a woman who is in her sickness, or a man who has become unfit for work, and who must sit
in the place of infirmity, those clothes shall serve for their coverings and for their sheets, until they can withdraw
their hands for prayer. 2:? Ahura Mazda, indeed, does not allow us to waste anything of value that we may
have, not even so much as an Asperena s weight of thread, not even so much as a maid lets
fall in spinning. 21 whosoever throws any clothing on a dead body, even so much as a maid lets fall
in spinning, is not a pious man whilst "!live,nor shall he, when dead, have a place in Paradise. 22 He
makes himself a viaticum unto the world of the wicked,into that world, made of darkness, the offspring of darkness,which is
Darkness self. To that world, to the world of Hell,you are delivered by your own doings, by your own religion,
0 sinners! IV. 23 O Maker of the material world, thou Holy One! Can he be clean again who has
eaten of the carcass of a dog or of the corpse of a man? 24 Ahura Mazda answered: He cannot,
O holy Zarathushtra! His burrow shall be dug out, his heart shall be torn out, his bright eyes shall be
put out; the Dru/" Nasu falls upon him, takes hold of him even to the end of the nails, and
he is unclean thenceforth,for ever and ever. V. 25 O Maker of the material world, thou Holy One! Can he
be clean again, 0 holy Ahura Mazda! who has brought a corpse with filth into the waters, or unto the
fire, and made either unclean? 26 Ahura Mazda answered: He cannot, O holy Zarathushtra! Those wicked ones it is, those
? Fargard I : Purity laws Nasu-cutters, that most increase spiders and locusts; those wicked ones it is, those Nasu-cutters,
that most increase the grass-destroying drought. 2I Those wicked ones it is, those Nasu-cutters, that increase most the power of
the winter, produced by the fiends, the cattle-killing,thick- snowing, overflowing, the piercing, fierce, mischievous winter, Upon them comes and rushes
the Dru/" Nasu she takes hold of them even to the end of the nails, and they are unclean, thenceforth,for
ever and ever. VI. 28 O Maker of the material world, thou Holy One! Can the wood be made clean,
0 holy Ahura Mazda! whereunto Nasu has been brought from a dead dog, or from a dead man? 2I Ahura
Mazda answered: It can, 0 holy Zarathushtra! How so? "if the Nasu has not yet been expelled by the corpse-eating
dogs, or by the corpse-eating birds, they shall lay down, apart on the ground, all the wood on a Vitasti
a all around, if the wood be dry; on a Frarathni all around, if it be wet," then they shall
sprinkle it once over with water, and it shall be clean. 30 But if the Nasu has already been expelled
by the corpse-eating dogs, or by the corpse-eating birds, they shall lay down, apart on the ground, all the wood
on a Frarathni all around, if the wood be dry; on a Frabazu all around, if it be wet; then
they shall sprinkle it once over with water, and it shall be clean. 3I Thus much of the wood around
the dead shall they lay down, apart on the ground, according as the wood is dry or wet;as it is
hard or soft," they shall sprinkle it once over with water,and it shall be clean. 32 O Maker of the
material world, thou Holy One! Can the corn or the fodder be made clean O holy Ahura Mazda! whereunto Nasu
has been brought from a dead dog, or from a dead man? 33 Ahura Mazda answered: It can, 0
