and long hops now.‘ ‘medium right,‘ suggested smith, with the intense gravity which comes upon a varsity man when he speaks of athletics. ‘inclining to fast, with a
work from leg. comes with the arm about three inches or so. he used to be nasty on a wet wicket. oh, by-the-way, have you heard about long

norton?‘ ‘what s that?‘ ‘he s been attacked.‘ ‘attacked?‘ ‘yes, just as he was turning out of the high street, and within a hundred yards of the gate

of old s.‘ ‘but who----‘ ‘ah, that s the rub! if you said what, you would be more grammatical. norton swears that it was not human, and, indeed,

from the scratches on his throat, i should be inclined to agree with him.‘ ‘what, then? have we come down to spooks?‘ abercrombie smith puffed his scientific contempt,
‘well, no; i don t think that is quite the idea, either. i am inclined to think that if any showman has lost a great ape lately, and

the brute is in these parts, a iury would find a true bill against it. norton passes that way every night, you know, about the same hour. there

s a tree that hangs low over the path--the big elm from rainy s garden. norton thinks the thing dropped on him out of the tree. anyhow, he

was nearly strangled by two arms, which, he says, were as strong and as thin as steel bands. he saw nothing; only those beastly arms that tightened and
tightened on him. he yelled his head nearly off, and a couple of chaps came running, and the thing went over the wall like a cat. he never

got a fair sight of it the whole time. it gave norton a shake up, i can tell you. i tell him it has been as good as

a change at the sea-side for him.‘ ‘a garrotter, most likely,‘ said smith. ‘very possibly. norton says not; but we don t mind what he says. the garrotter

had long nails, and was pretty smart at swinging himself over walls. by-the-way, your beautiful neighbour would be pleased if he heard about it. he had a grudge
against norton, and he s not a man, from what i know of him, to forget his little debts. but hallo, old chap, what have you got in

your noddle?‘ ‘nothing,‘ smith answered curtly. he had started in his chair, and the look had flashed over his face which comes upon a man who is struck
suddenly by some unpleasant idea. ‘you looked as if something i had said had taken you on the raw. by-the-way, you have made the acquaintance of master b.
since i looked in last, have you not? young monkhouse lee told me something to that effect.‘ ‘yes; i know him slightly. he has been up here once

or twice.‘ ‘well, you re big enough and ugly enough to take care of yourself. he s not what i should call exactly a healthy sort of Johnny,

though, no doubt, he s very clever, and all that. but you ll soon find out for yourself. lee is all right; he s a very decent little

fellow. well, so long, old chap! i row mullins for the vice-chancellor s pot on wednesday week, so mind you come down, in case i don t see

you before.‘ bovine smith laid down his pipe and turned stolidly to his books once more. but with all the will in the world, he found it very

hard to keep his mind upon his work. it would slip away to brood upon the man beneath him, and upon the little mystery which hung round his

chambers. then his thoughts turned to this singular attack of which hastie had spoken, and to the grudge which bellingham was said to owe the object of it.

the two ideas would persist in rising together in his mind, as though there were some close and intimate connection between them. and yet the suspicion was so
dim and vague that it could not be put down in words. ‘confound the chap!‘ cried smith, as he shied his book on pathology across the room. ‘he

has spoiled my night s reading, and that s reason enough, if there were no other, why i should steer clear of him in the future.‘ for ten

days the medical student confined himself so closely to his studies that he neither saw nor heard anything of either of the men beneath him. at the hours

when bellingham had been accustomed to visit him, he took care to sport his oak, and though he more than once heard a knocking at his outer door,

he resolutely refused to answer it. one afternoon, however, he was descending the stairs when, just as he was passing it, bellingham s door flew open, and young
monkhouse lee came out with his eyes sparkling and a dark flush of anger upon his olive cheeks, close at his heels followed bellingham, his fat, unhealthy face
all quivering with malignant passion. ‘you fool!‘ he hissed. ‘you ll be sorry.‘ ‘very likely,‘ cried the other. ‘mind what i say. it s off! i won

