his own name. his mind must be totally blown. did she know? did he know? what now? with the ticket
agent still yﬁlling, he d quickly disappeared into the crowd, having no choice but to pace a departure lounge for
an hour and a half, then take the only remaining london flight of the evening. all right, he d thought
after cooling down, novosty wants to use you." maybe you can use him. but now he suspected things weren t
going to be that simple. he remembered the two kgb operatives alex had shot and killed at knossos. they d
been there to find eva, which meant they knew she had something. now he realized that wasn t all they
knew. across the aisle in first class sat a tall, willowy woman who radiated all the self-confidence of a seasoned
european traveler. she was also elegantly beautiful-with dark eyes, auburn hair, and pursed red lips-and she carried a large brown
leather purse, florentine. she could have been a french fashion model, a high-paid american cosmetics executive, a spanish diplomat s
mistress. the problem was, vance knew, she was none of those things. the french passport he d seen her brandish
at the greek behind the glass windows at emigration control was a forgery. she was neither french, nor american, nor
spanish. she was an executive vice president with techmashimport, the importing cover for t-directorate. kgb. vera karanova was always a
prominent presence at western trade shows. but there was no trade show in london now, no new high-tech toys to
be dangled before the wondering eyes of techmashimport, which routinely arranged to try and obtain restricted computers, surveillance gear, weapons-systems
blueprints. so why s comrade karanova on this flight? off to buy a designer dress at a sloane street boutique?
catch the latest west end musical? how about the simplest answer of all: she s going to help them track
alex novosty to earth. or grab eva. or both. they re about to tighten the noose. so the nightmare was
still on. the kgb must have had the airport under surveillance, and somebody spotted novosty-or was it eva?-getting on the
british air flight to london. now they "were closing in. does she know me? vance wondered. my photo s in
their files somewhere, surely. but she d betrayed no hint of recognition. so maybe not. he d always worked away
from the limelight as much as possible. once more it had paid off. as the plane dipped and shuddered from
the turbulence, he watched out of the corner of his eye as she lifted the fake french passport out of
her open leather handbag, now nestled in the empty seat by the window, and began copying the number onto her
landing card. very unprofessional, he thought. you always memorize the numbers on a forgery. first rule. t-directorate s getting sloppy
these days. he waited till she d finished, then leaned over and ran his hand roughly down the arm of
her blue silk blouse. "etes-vous aller a londres pour du commerce?" he deliberately made his french as american-accented as possible.
"comment?" she glanced up, annoyed, and removed his hand. "ﬁxcusez moi, que dites-vous?" "d affaires?" he grinned and craned to
look at the front of her open neckline. "business?" "oui . . . yes." she switched quickly to english, her
relief almost too obvious. "get over there often?" he pushed. "from time to time." no fooling, lady. you ve been
in london four times since 88, by actual count, setting up phony third-party pass-through deals. "just business, huh?" he grinned
again, then looked up at the liquor service being unveiled in the galley. the turbulence had subsided slightly and the
attendants were trying to restore normality, at least in first class. "what do you say to a drink?" she beckoned
the approaching steward, hoping to outflank this obnoxious american across the aisle. "vodka and tonic, please." "same as the lady
s having, pal." he gave the young englishman a wink and a thumbs-up sign, then turned back. "by the way,
i m booked in at the holiday inn over by marble arch. great room service. almost like home. you staying
around there?" "no." she watched the steward P§ur her drink. "sorry to hear that. i was wondering, maybe we .
. . do these business trips of yours include taking some time off? let you in on a secret, /"ust
between you and me. i know this little club in soho where they have live-" he winked, "i got a
membership. tell you one thing, there s nothing like it in chicago." "i m afraid i ll be busy," "too
bad." he drew on his drink, then continued. "long stay this trip?" "if you ll excuse me, mr. -" "warner.
william /". warner. friends call me bill." "mr. warner, i ve had a very trying day. so, if you don
t mind, i d like to attempt to get some rest." "sure. you make yourself comfortable, now." he watched as
she shifted to the window seat, as far as possible from him, and stationed her leather handbag onto the aisle
side. just then the plane hit another air pocket, rattling the liquor bottles in the galley. "maybe we ll catch
up with each other in london," he yelled. "most unlikely." she elared as she gulped the last of her drink,
then carefully rotated to the window and adjusted her seat to full recline. her face disappeared. good riddance. after that
the flight went smoothly for a few minutes, and michael vance began to worry. but then the turbulence resumed, shutting
down drink service as their puny airplane again became a toy rattle in the hands of the gods, thirty thousand
feet over the mediterranean, buffeted by the powerful, unseen gusts of a spring storm. for a moment he found himself
envying zeno, who had only the churning sea to face. almost hesitantly he unbuckled his seat belt and pulled himself
up, balancing with one hand as he reached in the air to grapple drunkenly with the overhead baggage compartment.
