so they cruise along at the legal speed of I0 mph. the lookout truck and the ramp truck are both
dead heading home thus empty and faster. they soon catch up with ed and iim. they follow a few hundred
yards behind, relaying the mile marker locations to their friends further ahead. ed and iim soon catch up. the caravan
of trucks now paces their prey. this odd caravan rolls across the western nebraskan night for about an hour. just
east of north platte, the beers ed and iim drank earlier find their way to their bladders and /im says,
"hey, how about that rest stop ahead?" their suv pulls into the deserted rest stop. "there they go!" flashes from
cb aerial to aerial. ed parks the suv. they hop out and enter the small deserted building. their escort of
trucks just behind flashes turn signals. five pull into the truck parking area across from the small brick building. two
of the trucks stop on the entrance ramp thus blocking it, while /"im and ed are in the men s
room, six drivers scurry across the frozen parking lot and silently position themselves outside the restroom door. when they hear
blow dryers, they nod and ready themselves. first iim walks out and is grabbed by three of the truckers. one
quickly duct tapes his mouth shut while one clamps his arm firmly around /"im s neck whispering, "relax kid. keep
squirming and i ll break this skinny little neck of yours." the third trucker quickly binds iim s hands behind
him with more duct tape and then all three quietly drag him out into the dimly lit parking area. unawares,
ed now exits the men s room and is likewise bound and gagged. both iim and ed are dumped into
the trailer of one of the empty trucks, the one whose drivers recognized them. one of the drivers looks into
the trailer before he slams and latches the door and says, "you fuckers killed some friends of mine the ohure
day back on i25I just so you know. you took some shots at me and my partner too. now we
re gonna even the score, say your prayers, guys, this night s gonna be your last." he slams the tall
metal door with a clang. they hear the latches, attached to a rod the length of the door, slide into
place. outside they hear the crunch of the driver s boots on the snow as he walks to the tractor.
the tractor door slams and the air brakes wheeze. the big diesel roars and the truck lurches forward. the ohure
trucks have begun to roll uvest too. there s some comments on the cb s but mainly it s a
silent convoy heading into the empty spaces of western nebraska and eastern wyoming. at the i80/iII split, all but one
truck head south on :II towards denver. the lone truck remaining goes west onto the deserted stretch of i80 towards
cheyenne. iim and ed writhe in its ohurewise empty trailer. ed and /"im manage to squirm around until, with their
free fingers, they manage rip the duct tape off their mouths leaving their faces scared with bloody, red welts which,
in the darkness, they do not see but certainly feel. iim says to ed, "man, i m scared. where the
hell are they taking us?" "out in the middle of nowhere and then shoot us, i guess." "can you try
to pull the duct tape off my hands." they wrapped it around about ten times and i can barely {Hi
my fingers in this cold." after some more squirming and rolling about ed say, "no way. i can t find
a start to it and there s too many loops to rip. try mine." after a while iim says, "it
s no use, there s nothing i can do. at least let s pull together, it must be fucking -30/
in here." they huddle together in silence trying to conserve body heat knowing that it probably won t matter much
longer. /ust inside wyoming, the truck pulls off the interstate onto an old state route heading north. the outline yellow
trailer lights are cut and just the headlights and small red tail lights are visible. finally, miles from the interstate
and many miles from any settlement, the truck stops, moonlight bathes the snow covered rolling high prairie. a few small,
dark clumps of trees can be seen here and there in the distance. the drivers get out and open the
rear of their trailer. iim and ed are huddled next to each ohure in the sub zero cold. as one
driver climbs up into the trailer, dim lights on the trailer roof switch on. he grabs ed and iim by
their coat collars and drags them towards the rear opening. his partner is waiting on the ground with a hand
gun pointed at them. the guy on the truck takes out a knife and slits the duct tape binding their
arms and legs then slips it back into its sheath attached to his wide leather belt. he hops down and
his partner pulls anohure hand gun from his belt and hands it to him. they both stand back and one
says, "okay you two, out of the trailer." they iump to the ground. ed stumbles and lands on his hands
on the cold icy road surface, cutting his palms in several places. he quickly stands up, folding his arms and
placing his hands under his armpits. /"im starts whimpering, the driver slams and bolts the door, one of the drivers
laughs and turns to his partner and says, "they re not as tough without a gun in their hands shooting
the tires out from under a 56 year old guy with a wife and three kids, are they?" "guess not.
i guess not." iim says, "you can t do this, it s cold blooded murder. you ll hang for this.
you won t get away with it." one trucker laughs and says to the ohure, "ya know, he has
