daniel asked. "it looks too thick to be light pollution, and smells odd. i ve never smelled this smell before,"
mr. sanders said. "this is too weird  is this the sanctuary rurik spoke of: an empty wilderness?" amber asked.
"congratulations, and thank you for opening the door for me and my research team." a familiar voice spoke from behind
them. the four turned around and saw doctor roberts standing at the end of the bridge with a group of
armed men directing their weapons at them. "your uncle has enough findings to his name, miss mcclean. i ll field
this one if you don t mind." "fool!" larry shepherd growled at him. "you haven t the first clue of
what we ve discovered here today!" "no, but i m going to be the one to figure it out and
tell the world what it is. not any of you, and especially not professor mcclean. it s good to see
you again, mr. sanders. i hope life is treating you well." "not well enough, philip," mr. sanders murmured. "of course,
things are bound to look up someday." doctor roberts clapped. "here s how this is going to go. you four
will stay here, while i and my men continue forward. sound good." fabulous." larry shepherd, daniel davis, amber mcclean and
mr. sanders stood against the wall out of the way as doctor roberts and his crew climbed down a rope
and entered the valley beyond the cliff. two of his men remained behind to watch the four and make sure
they didn t follow. the guards paced the walkway before the ledge, sometimes turning their backs to the hostages. amber
leaned over to mr. sanders next to her and whispered, "make a distraction. i have a plan." mr. sanders nodded
and sighed loudly. the guards immediately turned their attention to him. "i have a splitting headache. neither of you would
happen to have an aspirin on you, perhaps? no? sorry," he chuckled. "i get nervous under high pressure situations. sometimes
i faint. ohure times i begin vomiting violently. if i could just get an aspirin, i d be fine." the
two glanced at one anohure quizzically. mr. sanders shrugged to amber. after a few minutes, he sighed again and collapsed
to his knees. "stand up!" one of the {bards shouted and pointed the muzzle of his gun at mr. sanders.
"i just... need some fresh air." mr. sanders clutched his chest. as one of the guards approached him, he grabbed
the gun from him and put the guard into a headlock. going with the plan in fluid motion, larry shepherd
pushed the first guard down and then turned and ran back toward the entrance. during this struggle, amber snagged daniel
s sleeve and pulled him backward. they retreated through the corridor, through the doorway and down the spiral staircase back
to where they had left the quasar lite. - when travis woke the next morning to the sound of something
at the door, he saw uncle dave peering in from the doorway. a look of concern filled his face. travis
met his eye. he held his finger up to his lips. for a moment, travis thought dan or miles had
curled up next to him and started snoring, but when he looked over he saw the brindle brown, white and
5/WOW Coloring of the puma s pelt. travis stifled a scream. it was practically on top of him. he looked
to uncle dave who shook his head and quietly held up anohure steak. miles, who was still asleep, rolled over
and kicked the mountain lion in the hip. uncle dave grimaced, squeezing his eyes closed. the cat s slow, rhythmic
breathing ceased for a moment before it continued again. pat snored from his bed. dan roused next. he took a
deep breath, lifted his head of messy, morning hair and saw the mountain lion. "wassup, cat." he murmured sleepily, rolled
onto his ohure side, and fell back to sleep. uncle dave, still holding the steak, breathed a sigh of relief.
he turned around and disappeared for a minute. uncle dave returned with a notepad in hand. he scribbled on the
page, and then turned it to travis so he could read. "just relax. don t do anything sudden, and stay
calm. don t touch it. let it feel like it s in control." travis nodded, physically trying to calm himself.
he could hear his heart thumping wildly in his chest, aching in its extremity. uncle dave stuck his head in
the room and looked around. he did a double-take at a blue, spray-painted light-saber made out of pvc pipe hanging
over the doorway and grabbed it. he balanced the steak on the steel handle and extended it into the bedroom
slowly. the shadow of the steak on the light-saber crossed the mountain lion s back and made its way to
the cat s sleeping face. it took a deep breath. the creature groaned as it opened its eyes. uncle dave
pulled the steak back, nearly dropping it in his haste. the mountain lion slowly sat up and glared at uncle
dave, who started retreating down the hall so all the cat could see was the steak hovering in the passage.
the puma didn t seem very interested as it licked its fine black lips and wiggled its ears back and
forth to the sounds of the birds singing just outside pat s window. it must have licked its lips five
times before it fell into a bout of cleaning its paws and nails, its long pink tongue sliding down its
fur in its meticulous cleansing process. uncle dave gave a frustrated sigh from the hallway and slowly reintroduced the steak
into the room. the mountain lion saw it this time and rose to all fours. it stretched and arched its
back, allowing the fur riding down its spine to raise straight up. the puma dropped into a long, lanky stride
between the boys. it stepped on its bad paw and limped the rest of the way, following uncle dave
