hall, took great interest in him. well, was he very
glad? he asked. Glad? "I should think so! Almost dancing
as he walked away. And has anything been left? asked
Seryozha, after a pause. dome, sir, said the hall-porter," then
with a shake of his head he whispered, Something from
the countess. Seryozha understood at once that what the hall
porter was speaking of was a present from Countess Lidia
Ivanovna for his birthday. what do you say? where? tcorney
took it to your papa. A fine plaything it must
be too! How big? Like this? Rather small, but a
time thing. A book. No, a thing. Run along, run
along, Vassily Lukitch is calling you, said the porter, hearing
the tutor s steps approaching, and carefully taking away from
his belt the I134 of 1I5I Anna ksarenina little hand
in the glove half pulled off, he signed with his
head towards the tutor. Vassily Lukitch, in a tiny minute!
answered Seryozha with that gay and loving smile which always
won over the conscientious Vassily Lukitch, Seryozha was too happy,
everything was too delightful for him to be able to
help sharing with his friend the porter the family good
fortune of which he had heard during his walk in
the public gardens from Lidia "Ivanovna s niece, This piece
of good news seemed to him particularly important from its
coming at the same time with the gladness of the
bandaged clerk and his own gladness at toys having come
for him. It seemed to Seryozha that this was a
day on which everyone ought to be glad and happy.
You know papa s received the Alexander Nevsky today? To
be sure I do." People have been already to congratulate
him. And is he glad? Glad at the Tsar s
gracious favor! "I should think so! "it s a proof
he s deserved it, said the porter severely and seriously.
1135 of II5.I Anna kzarenina Seryozha fell to dreaming, gazing
up at the face of the porter, which he had
thoroughly studied in every detail, especially the chin that hung
down between the gray whiskers, never seen by anyone but
Seryozha, who saw him only from below. well, and has
your daughter been to see you lately? The porter 5
daughter was a ballet dancer. when is she to come
on week-days? They ve their lessons to learn too. And
you ve your lesson, sir; run along. On coming into
the room, Seryozha, instead of sitting down to his lessons,
told his tutor of his supposition that what had been
brought him must be a machine. what do you think?
he inquired. Sut Vassily Lukitch was thinking of nothing but
the necessity of learning the grammar lesson for the teacher,
who was coming at two. No, do just tell me,
Vassily Lukitch, he asked suddenly, when he was seated at
their work table with the book in his hands, what
is greater than the Alexander Nevsky? You know papa s
received the Alexander Nevsky? Vassily Lukitch replied that the Vladimir
was greater than the Alexander Nevsky. 1136 of 1I5I Anna
kiarenina And higher still? well, highest of all is the
Andrey Pervozvanny. And higher than the Andrey? I don t
know. what, you don t know? and Seryozha, leaning on
his elbows, sank into deep meditation. His meditations were
