darling-or tHe darling has lived with me, and paid me for it,’ which sHé certainly should never have done, you

may take your affidavit, if 9 could have afforded to keep eitHer rnyself or Hér for nothing-since sHé was ten
years old. And it s really very hard,‘ said Miss Pross, Not seeing with precision what was very hard, Mr,

Lorry shook his Héad; using that important part of himself as a sort of fairy cloak that would fit anything.

‘All sorts of people who are not in tHé least degree worthy of tile pet, are alvvays turning up,‘ said

Miss Pross, ‘wHén you began it-‘ ‘9 began it, Miss Pross?‘ ‘Didn t you? who brought Hér fat/-{ér to life?‘

97 ‘Oh.’ 9f that was beginning it-‘ said Mr. Lorry, ‘9t wasn t ending it, 9 suppose? 9 say, wHén

you began it, it was hard enough; not that 9 have any fault to find with Doctor Manette, except that

He is not worthy of such a daughter, which is no imputation on him, for it was not to be

expected that anybody should be, under any circumstances. BUt it ready is doubly and trebly hard to have crowds and
multitudes of people turning up after him (9 could have forgiven him}, to take Ladybird s affections avvay from me,‘
Mr. Lorry knew Miss Pross to be very iealous, bijt Hé also knew Hér by this time to be, beneath

tHé service of Her eccent- ricity, one of those unselfish creatures-found only among wo- men-who will, for pure love and
admiration, bind tHémselves willing slaves, to youth wHén tHey have lost it, to beauty that tHéy never had, to accomplishments
that tHey were never for- tunate enough to gain, to bright hopes that never shone Upon théir own sombre lives.

Hé knew enough of mé world to know that tHére is nothing in it better tham ti-ié faithful service of

ti-lé Héart; so rendered and so free from any mercenary taint, Hé had such an exalted respect for it, that

in tHé retributive ar- rangements made by his own mind-we all make such arrange- ments, more or less- Hé stationed
Miss Pross much nearer to ti-Ié lower Angels tham many ladles immeasurably better got up both by Nature and Art,

who had balances at Tellson s. ‘Ti-ié re never was, nor will be, bijt one man worthy of !_ady- bird,‘ said

Miss Pross,’ ‘and that was my broti-iér Solomon, if He hadn t made a mistake in life.‘ He re again Mr.

Lorry s inquiries into Miss Pross s personal history had establisHéd tHé fact that Hér brotHér Solomon was a Héartless
scoundrel who had stripped Hér of everything sHe possessed, as a stake to speculate with, and had abandoned Hér in
Her poverty for evermore, with no touch of compunction. Miss Pross s fidelity of belief in Solomon (deducting a mere
trifle for this slight mistake} was guite a serious matter with Mr. Lorry, and had its weight in his good

opinion of Her. ‘As we happen to be alone for tHe moment, and are both people of business,‘ Hé said,

w/-{én tHéy had got back to mé drawing- room and had sat down ti-lé re in friendly relations, ‘let me ask

you-does ti-/é Doctor, in talking with Lucie, never refer to ti-Ié shoemaking time, yet?‘ 98 ‘Never.’ ‘And yet keeps that
bench and those tools beside him?‘ ‘Ah!‘ returned Miss Pross, shaking Hér Héad, ‘But 9 don t say Hé don

t refer to it with ll” himself.‘ ‘Do you believe that Hé thinks of it much?‘ '9 do,‘ said Miss

Pross. ‘Do you imagine-‘ Mr. Lorry had begun, wHén Miss Pross took him up short with: ‘Never imagine anything, Have
no imagination at all.‘ ‘9 stand corrected; do you suppose-you go so far as to sup- pose, sometimes?‘ ‘Now and

tHé n,‘ said Miss Pross. ‘Do you suppose,‘ Mr. Lorry went on’, with a laughing twinkle in his bright eye, as

it looked kindly at Her, ‘that Doc- tor Manette has any ti-ieory of his own, preserved through all those years,

relative to tHe cause of his being so oppressed,‘ perhaps, even to tHe name of his oppressor?‘ ‘9 don t

suppose anything ébout it bUt what Ladybird tells me.‘ ‘And that is-?‘ ‘That s/-ié thinks Hé has.‘ ‘Now don t

be angry at my asking all tHése questions; be- cause 9 am a mere dull man of business, and you

are a woman of business.‘ ‘Dull?‘ Miss Pross inquired, with placidity. Rat/-{ér wishing his modest adiective avvay, Mr, Larry replied,
‘No, no, no. Surely not. To return to business:-9s it not re- markable that Doctor Manette, unquestionably innocent of any
crane as we are all well assured Hé is, should never touch ljpon that question? 9 will not say with

me, though Hé had business relations with me many years ago, and we are now intimate; 9 will say with

tHé fair daughter to whom He is so devotedly at- tact-iéd, and who is so devotedly attacHéd to him.’ Believe

me, Miss Pross, 9 don t approach tHe topic with you, out of curios- ity, but out of zealous interest,‘

‘well.’ To tHé best of my understanding, and bad s tHé best, you ll tell ,me,‘ said Miss Pross, softened

by we tone of me apo- logy, we is éfraid of t/-ié whole sub/'ect.‘ ‘Afraid?‘ 99 '9: s plain enough,

9 should think, why He may be. 9t s a dreadful remembrance. Besides that, his loss of himself grew out

of it, Not knowing how He lost himself, or how Hé recovered himself, He may never feel certain of not

losing himself again. That alone wouldn t make t/-ié sub/'ect pleasant, 9 should think.‘ 9t was a profounder remark tham
Mr. Lorry had looked for. ‘True,‘ said He, ‘and fearful to reflect Upon. Yet, a doubt lurks in my mind’,

Miss Pross, wHeti-{er it is good for Doctor Manette to have that suppression alvvays shut up with lln him. ‘indeed,

it is this doubt and tHe uneasiness it sometimes causes me that has led me to our present confidence,‘ ‘(an

t be Helped,‘ said Miss Pross, shaking Hér Head. ‘Touch that string, and Hé instantly changes for tHé worse, Better
leave it alone. 9n short, must leave it alone, like or no like. So- metimes, Hé gets up in tHé

dead of tHé night, and will be Heard, by us overt-iéad ti-iére, walking up and down, walking up and down,

in his room. Ladybird has learnt to know tHén that his mind is walking up and down, walking up and

down, in his old prison. Si-Ié hurries to him, and ti-iey go on togetHe r, walking up and down, walking

