i must tell you because i fear that if i do not, i shall place your life in great peril."
the son urgently pressed, "da, what is it?" weighing the difficulty in his heart, the father said, "before i tell
you, understand the meaning of the word love. remember it, feel it, hold it, give it, and express it. most
importantly, never lose sight of it. love is what brought you into this world. love is what makes people strive
onward, and love is what makes people live. understand there will come a time when the only thing left to
fight for is love, and it will be love that shall overcome all." the son nodded innocently. clenching his son
s hand, the father looked at him with grave concern. "yesterday an angel of grace appeared to me while i
was plowing the field, and she said unto me that i must take my firstborn son regularly to the temple
to pray in order that it may remind you of where the seed of love is born from. for one
day, you will deny god s love, and because of it, you shall come to face a great many tribulations."
the son iumped to his feet, inquiring with panic in his trembling voice, "da, am i at harm? why me?
tell me now! what have i done to deserve this?" the father stood to embrace his son in his thick
arms and replied comfortingly, "now, now, lad. everything will be alright." yet the son, refusing such consolation, pushed away from
his father, shouting, "no, everything is not!" as the son stared teary eyed into the crackling flames, the father explained,
"do you understand why the angel appeared unto me? the angel came in an effort to protect you." "how will
i be protected if i am destined to deny him anyways?" the father was at a loss for words. there
was no explanation, no logic to offer-only Words of sorrow. "for that, i do not know. i am truly sorry."
with steady steps, the father met his son before the fire and hugged him from behind as they both stood
in wordless thought, the father s husky voice broke the silence. "what does our faith tell us about handling uncertainty?
we are taught that we should place our unyielding trust in god in order for him to make everything right."
the son did not respond but remained quietly in his father s embrace. "the angel also said unto me that
you do not walk this iourney alone, for you shall soon come to meet your spiritual brother." turning around, the
son looked up to his father, meeting his unusually bright smile. the father exclaimed, "he will be your best friend."
"really?" wiping away the tears from his son s cheek, he said, "yes!" the son s lips parted in a
slow approaching grin. the father embraced his son once again. "i love you." "i love you too, da." as the
memory began to fade away, the father whispered words that lingered in his son s ear, "when you return, go
to your brother, for he is uncertain of your fate." liviulé flinched as his eyes opened wide with panic. frantically,
he jostled around on his cot trying to figure out where he was, pleading, "where am i?" as liviulé 5
eyes began to focus, damyen chuckled. "bacilly. why-have you forgotten?" liviulé pushed a heavy blanket aside as his lungs mildly
hyperventilated. his tunic was soaked with sweat, and in his anger, he struggled to remove it. after pulling the tunic
over his head, he thrashed it far across the room. bare-chested and burning up, liviulé dropped back down on the
bed, wiping beads of sweat from his forehead and grumbling, "this was the first night in many nights that i
was finally able to sleep, and this is how god repays me-by bringing up chilling memories of my past." grabbing
his boots and sitting down on the cot across from his distraught friend, damyen asked, "did you have that dream
about your father again?" "yes!" liviulé shook his head in disbelief and added, "no matter what, i will never forget
that night and what he said to me, particularly about love and my own demise. it just tears at my
soul, damyen. i am torn knowing that i will deny god!" damyen slid his right foot into his boot. "i
think we have been torn in our own ways. in my case, i am reminded of the necklace that my
ex-girlfriend, mallelin of mantua, continued to wear after i broke her heart." "you never quite got over that." "never." "i
remember the origins of that necklace and how it came into her possession," liviulé stated. "it all began when she
fell terribly ill and no one, not even the best physicians or medicinals, could cure her." "and you did what
you had to do." "agreed." the conversation was beginning to brighten liviule s spirit, and he agreed, "so that night
i secretly came to her bedside while she was asleep bringing holy oil from the relics of saint ioan. 4""
then dabbed my fingers with it and blessed her on the forehead while saying the healing prayer. when i was
finished, i placed the holy oil in the palm of her hand and then i left." as damyen finished putting
on his left boot, he continued the conversation where liviulé left off, saying, "and that was the last time any
of us had either seen or heard from her,,,until months later, when we discovered that mallelin was miraculously healed," damyen
exhaled a chuckle. "her parents were inviting everyone over for a grand celebration." then damyen s voice grew hushed. "i
remember the very first time i saw her that night. she was so beautiful, so angelic. she was wearing a
glimmering gown that matched her green eyes, and her ash-blond hair brushed the crevice of her lower back. her thin
lips gave way to that full smile of hers. and who could forget her quirkiness and how she does
