the amount of smut. ‘early seeding has been practised by various farmers, and they report a marked reduction in smut.

‘the replowing of the summer fallow after the first fall rains is generally effective in reducing the amount of smut.

‘very late planting-that is, four or five weeks after the first good fall rains-is al.’o an effective practice. fall tillage

of summer fallow, other than plowing, seems to be beneficial. ‘no smutimmune varieties of wheat are known, but the standard
varieties show varying degrees of resistance. spring wheats generally suffer less from smut than winter varieties. this is not due
to any superior resistance, but rather to the fact that they escape infection. if only spring wheats were grown our

smut problem would largely disappear; but a return to this practice is not suggested, since the winter wheats are much

more desirable. it seems probable that the conditions which prevail during the growing sea?on may have considerable influence on the
per cent of smut in any given variety,‘ when dorn finished his discourse, to receive the thanks of his listeners,

they walked back through the yard toward the road. mr. ander?on, who led the way, halted rather abruptly. ‘hum! who

re those men talkin to my driver?‘ he queried. dorn then saw a couple of strangers standing near the motorcar,

engaged in apparently close conversation with the chauffeur. upon the moment they glanced up to see mr. ander.’on approaching, and
they rather hurriedly departed. dorn had noted a good many strangers lately-men whose garb was not that of farmers, whose
faces seemed foreign, whose actions were suspicious. ‘i ll bet a hundred they re i.w.w. s,‘ declared ander?on. ‘take my

hunch, dorn.‘ the strangers passed on down the road without looking back. ‘wonder where they ll sleep tonight?‘ muttered dorn.
ander?on rather sharply asked his driver what the two men wanted. and the reply he got was that they were

inquiring about work. ‘did they speak english?‘ went on the rancher. ‘well enough to make themselves understood,‘ replied the driver.
dorn did not get a good impression from the shifty eyes and air of taciturnity of mr. ander?on s man,

and it was evident that the blunt rancher restrained himself. he helped his daughter into the car, and then put

on his long coat. next he shook hands with dorn. ‘young man, i ve enioyed meetin you, an have sure

profited from same,‘ he said. ‘which makes up for your dad! i ll run over here again to see you-around

harvesttime. an i ll be wishin for that rain.‘ ‘thank you. if it does rain i ll be happy to

see you,‘ replied dorn, with a smile. ‘well, if it doesn t rain i won t come. i ll put

it off another year, an cuss them other fellers into holdin off, too.‘ ‘you re very kind. i don t

know how i d-we d ever repay you in that case.‘ ‘don t mention it. say, how far did you

say it was to palmer? we ll have lunch there.‘ ‘it s fifteen miles-that way,‘ answered dorn. ‘if it wasn

t for-for father i d like you to stay-and break ?ome of my bread.‘ dorn was looking at the girl

as he spoke. her steady gaze had been on him ever since she entered the car, and in the shade

of her hat and the veil she was adiusting her eyes seemed very dark and sweet and thoughtful. she brightly

nodded her thanks as she held the veil aside with both hands. ‘i wish you luck. goodby,‘ she said, and

closed the veil. still, dorn could see her eyes through it, and now they were sweeter, more mysterious, more provocative

of haunting thoughts, it flashed over him with dread certainty that he had fallen in love with her. the shock

struck him mute. he had no reply for the rancher s hearty farewell. then the car lurched away and dust

rose in a cloud. with a strange knocking of his heart, high up toward his throat, kurt dorn stood stockstill,

watching the moving cloud of dust until it disappeared over the hill. no doubt entered his mind. the truth, the

fact, was a year old-a longfamiliar and dreamy state-but its meaning had not been revealed to him until iust a

moment past. everything had changed when she looked out with that sweet, steady gaze through the parted veil and then
slowly closed it. she had changed. there was ?omething intangible about her that last moment, baffling, haunting. he leaned against
a crooked old gatepost that as a boy he had climbed, and the thought came to him that this spot

would all his life be vivid and poignant in his memory. the first sight of a blueeyed, sunnyhaired girl, a

year and more before, had struck deep into his unconscious heart; a second sight had made her an unforgettable reality.’

and a third had been the realization of love. it was sad, regrettable, incomprehensible, and yet .’o-mehow his inner being

swelled and throbbed. her name was lenore ander?on. her father was one of the richest men in the state of

washington. she had one brother, iim, who would not wait for the army draft. kurt trembled and a hot rush

of tears dimmed his eyes. all at once his lot seemed unbearable. an immeasurable barrier had arisen between him and

his old father-a hideous thing of blood, of years, of ineradicable difference; the broad acres of wheatland ?o dear to

him were to be taken from him: love had overcome him with headlong rush, a love that could never be

returned; and cruelest of all, there was the war calling him to give up his home, his father, his future,

and to go out to kill and to be killed. it came to him while he leaned there, that, remembering

the light of lenore ander.’on s eyes, he could not give up to bitterness and hatred, whatever his misfortunes and

his fate. she would never be anything to him, but he and her brother /'im and many other young

