signs of his peaceful togetherness with allah. whenever he was happy about something or when he received happy news he
would prostrate[-42% and pray[43J in order to thank allah for this bounty. in the event of extraordinary events such as
a solar or lunar ec ipse he woul immediately bow down in the face of such divine manifestations of magnificence. [44]when
he had a need to ask for from allah he would again perform the prayer, in the blessed month of
ramadan the messenger of allah became even more spiritual with the worship he performed such as the tarawih prayers, his
itikaf {seclusion}, and the generosity in giving out of the messenger of allah. after ramadan he would continue to perform
from time to time supererogatory fasting. he would especially choose to fast on mondays and thursdays and he would explain
the reason as follows: "it is on mondays and thursdays that the deeds of a person are presented to allah
most high, i like to have my deeds presented while i am fasting", (tirmidhi, savm, 44/I4I}. on the 13th, 14th
and 15th days of the hijri month called the days of white {due to the full moon) he would take
care to fast and advised his companions to do the same "the prophet would fast on the days of the
full moon in both war and peace and would never abandon this practice". (nasai, savm, I0) allah s messenger would
spend six days of the month of shawwal fasting[45] and would fast the ashura fast on the Ith and 10th
or the 10-I1th days of the month of muharrem. the prophet would explain the virtues of the greater and lesser
pilgrimages {ha}! and umrah} and he would be in a state of constant remembrance, and would never cease his praise,
glorification and asking for forgiveness. he would sacrifice an animal for himself and for those in his community who could
not afford to. [4I] what is meant by prostration is generally the ritual prayer or salat. in that case those
who want to enter paradise and be a neighbour of the beloved of allah should pray much and increase their
prostrations which are moments of closeness with allah. the station of the prophet muhammad tpbuh} in paradise is greater than
that of all the other prophets. so if one desires to be close to the prophet in paradise, one should
act in accordance with the sunnah and in particular, perform much ritual prayer {salat} in deep reverence. on the day
that khaybar was conquered a man came to the prophet and said: "o messenger of allah, today i have made
such a profit the likes of which none of the people of this valley have seen" the prophet aksed him:
"what did you earn?" the companion replied: "i continued to buy and sell without stopping so much so that i
earned 300 ukiyye". [48] in response to this the prophet (pbuh} said: "shall i tell you something that is the
best of profits?" the companion replied: "what is that o messenger of allah?" the prophet gave the following response: the
messenger of allah (pbuh} asked: "shall i tell you something that has a faster return and brings more booty?" and
then continued: "if a man takes his ablution properly and then arrives at the mosque, and prays his dawn prayer
and follows it up with two cycles of the midmorning prayer, then this man will have made a much faster
return and will have gained much more". "if you pray two cycles of the late-morning prayer you will not be
written as amongst the ignorant; if you pray 4 cycles you will be written as a worshipper; if you pray
6" cycles, allah will meet all of your needs; if you pray 8 cycles you will be recorded as a
qanitin (one who does much worship}; if you perchance pray 10 cycles, a house will be built for you in
paradise". there is no day, nor no night, and no second even in which allah most high does not bestow
upon his servants what they wish and favours them. allah most high has not bestowed a bounty upon any of
his slaves greater than the inspiration of his remembrance in his heart", (haysami, ii, 236; ali al-muttaki, vii, 80I/21511). one
time the messenger of allah (pbuh) said to bilal {fa}: "o bilal! which of your worship is it that you
performed after you became muslim that you hope for the most reward from? because i heard the sounds of your
shoes ahead of me in paradise". bilal replied: "after i have taken my ablution i pray as much prayer as
i can, day and night, this is the worship that i hope for the most reward from". (bukhari, taha/iud 1I,
tawheed 4I, fadailus sahaba I08}. allah s messenger saw bilal in his dream walking ahead of him in paradise. almighty
allah showed the prophet this dream to inform us of the importance of supererogatory prayers, one day abu qatada came
to the mosque of the prophet. when he saw the blessed prophet sitting amongst his companions he went and sat
next to him. upon this allah s messenger turned to abu qatada and said: "what prevented you from praying two
cycles of prayer before you sat down?" abu qatade replied: whenever the companions needed anything or whenever they were in
distress they immediately prayed supererogatory prayers and sought refuge with allah. one summer s day the gardener of anas (fa)
came to him and complained that it had not rained and that the garden had withered. anas asked for some
water and took his ablution following which he performed the prayer, after he finished, he asked the gardener: "do you
see anything in the sky?" the gardener replied: "no i do not", anas {ra} went back inside and continued to
pray, he asked again for the third or the fourth time: "can you see anything in the sky?" the gardener
answered: "i can see a cloud the size of a bird s wing". upon this anas continued his prayer
