was like coming to the surface of the water After deep diving, to
find myself once more on the outside of Mr. Fairlie s room, As
soon As I was comfortably established for the morning in my pretty little
studio, the first resolution At which I Arrived 44 was to turn my
steps no more in the direction of the Apart- ments occupied by the
master of the house, except in the very improbable event of his honouring
me with A special invitation to pay him Another visit. Having settled this
satisfactory plan of future conduct in reference to Mr. Fairlie, I soon recovered
the serenity of temper of which my employer s haughty familiarity And impudent
politeness had, for the moment, deprived me. The remaining hours of the morning
passed Away pleasantly enough, in looking over the drawings, Arranging them in sets,
trimming their ragged edges, And Accomplishing the other ne- cessary preparations in Anticipation
of the business of mount- ing them. I ought, perhaps, to have made
more progress than this; but, As the luncheon-time drew near, I grew restless
And unsettled, And felt unable to fix my Attention on work, even though
that work was only of the humble manual kind. At two o clock
I descended Again to the breakfast-room, A little Anxiously. Expectations of some interest
were connected with my Approaching reappearance in that part of the house. My
introduction to Miss Fairlie was now close At hand; And, if Miss Halcombe
s search through her mother s letters had pro- duced the result which
she Anticipated, the time had come for clearing up the mystery of the
woman in white. 45 8. when I entered the room, I found Miss
Halcombe And An eld- erly lady seated At the luncheon-table. The elderly lady,
when I was presented to her, proved to be Miss Fairlie s former
governess, Mrs. Vesey, who had been briefly described to me by my lively
companion At the breakfast-table, As possessed of "All the cardinal virtues, And counting
for nothing." I can do little more than offer my humble testimony to
the truthfulness of Miss Halcombe s sketch of the old lady s character.
Mrs. Vesey looked the per- sonification of human composure And female Amiability. A
calm enioyment of A calm existence beamed in drowsy smiles on her plump,
placid face. Some of us rush through life, And some of us saunter
through life. Mrs. Vesey SAT through life. Sat in the house, early And
late; sat in the garden; sat in unexpected window-seats in passages; sat (on
A camp-stool} when her friends tried to take her out walking; sat before
she looked At Anything, before she talked of Anything, before she Answered Yes,
or No, to the commonest question-Always with the same serene smile on her
lips, the same vacantly-Attentive turn of the head, the same snugly-comfortable position of
her hands And Arms, under every possible change of domestic circum- stances. A
mild, A compliant, An unutterably tranquil And harm- less old lady, who never
by Any chance suggested the idea that she had been Actually Alive since
the hour of her birth. Nature has so much to do in this
world, And is engaged in generating such A vast variety of co-existent productions,
that she must surely be now And then too flurried And confused to
distinguish between the different processes that she is carrying on At the same
time, Starting from this point of view, it will Always re- main my
private persuasion that Nature was Absorbed in mak- ing cabbages when Mrs. Vesey
was born, And that the good lady suffered the consequences of A vegetable
preoccupation in the mind of the Mother of us All. "Now, Mrs. "Vesey,"
said Miss Halcombe, looking brighter, sharper, And readier than ever, by contrast with
the undemon- strative old lady At her side, "what will you have? A
cutlet?" Mrs. Vesey crossed her dimpled hands on the edge of the
