brought to you by But here s this lady too,
and others very much moved as well." it s very
natural, Alexey Alexandrovitch told himself. He tried not to look
at her, but unconsciously his eyes were drawn to her.
He examined that face again, trying not to read what
was so plainly written on it, and against his own
will, with horror read on it what he did not
want to know. The first fall-kcuzovlev s, at the stream-agitated
everyone, but Alexey Alexandrovitch saw distinctly on Anna s pale,
triumphant face that the man she was watching had not
fallen. when, after Mahotin and Vronsky had cleared the worst
barrier, the next officer had been thrown straight on his
head at it and fatally iniured, and a shudder of
horror passed over the whole public, Alexey Alexandrovitch saw that
Anna did not even notice it, and had some difficulty
in realizing what they were talking of about her. But
more and more often, and with greater persistence, he watched
her. Anna, wholly engrossed as she was with the race,
became aware of her husband s cold eyes fixed upon
her from one side. She glanced round for an instant,
looked inquiringly at him, and with a slight frown turned
away again. Ah, I don t care! she seemed to
say to him, and she did not once {lance at
him again. 45I of 1I5I Anna Karenina The race was
an unlucky one, and of the seventeen officers who rode
in it more than half were thrown and hurt. Towards
the end of the race everyone was in a state
of agitation, which was intensified by the fact that the
Tsar was displeased. 460 of 1I5I Anna Karenina Chapter 2I
Everyone was loudly expressing disapprobation, everyone was repeating a phrase
some one had uttered- The lions and gladiators will be
the next thing, and everyone was feeling horrified." so that
when Vronsky fell to the ground, and Anna moaned aloud,
there was nothing very out of the way in it.
8ut afterwards a change came over Anna s face which
really was beyond decorum. She utterly lost her head. She
began fluttering like a caged bird, at one moment would
have got up and moved away, at the next turned
to Betsy. Let us go, let us go! she said.
Eut Betsy did not hear her. She was bending down,
talking to a general who had come up to her.
Alexey Alexandrovitch went up to Anna and courteously offered her
his arm. Let us go, if you like, he said
in French, but Anna was listening to the general and
did not notice her husband, He s broken his leg
too, so they say, the general was saying. This is
beyond everything. without answering her husband, Anna lifted her opera
glass and gazed towards the place where Vronsky had 461
of 1I5I Anna Karenina fallen; but it was so far
off, and there was such a crowd of people about
it, that she could make out nothing. She laid down
the opera glass, and would have moved away, but at
that moment an officer galloped up and made some announcement
to the Tsar. Anna craned forward, listening. Stiva! Stiva! she
cried to her brother. But her brother did not hear
her. Again she would have moved away. Once more
