behold, the days come, saith the Lord, that I will cause an alarm of war to be heard in Rabbah
of the Ammonites ." and it shall be a desolate heap, and her daughters shall be burned with fire :
then shall Israel be heir unto them that were his heirs, saith the Lord. Howl, O Heshbon, for Ai is
spoiled : cry, ye daughters of Rabbah, gird you with sackcloth ; lament, and run to and fro by the
hedges ; for their king shall go into captivity, and his priests and his princes together. wherefore gloriest thou in
the valleys, thy flowing valley, 0 backsliding daughter .I that trusted in her treasures, saying, who shall come unto me
.I Behold, I will bring a fear upon thee, saith the Lord God of hosts, from all those that be
about thee ; and ye shall be driven out every man right forth ," and none shall gather up him
that wandereth. And afterward I will bring again the captivity of the children of Ammon, saith the Lord, The Prophecy
concerning Edom Concerning Edom, thus saith the Lord of hosts ; Is wisdom no more in Teman .I is counsel
perished from the prudent .I is their wisdom vanished .I Flee ye, turn back, dwell deep, 0 inhabitants of Dedan
I for I will bring the calamity of Esau upon him, the time that I will visit him. If grape
gatherers come to thee, would they not leave some gleaning grapes .I if thieves by night, they will destroy till
they have enough. 1 2 3 4 5 6 I B I 1I23 ileremiah 4I But I have made Esau
bare, I have uncovered his secret places, and he shall not be able to hide himself ." his seed is
spoiled, and his brethren, and his neighbors, and he is not. Leave thy fatherless children, I will preserve them alive
I and let thy widows trust in me. For thus saith the Lord ; Behold, they whose iudgment was not
to drink of the cup have assuredly drunken ," and art thou he that shall altogether go unpunished .I thou
shalt not go unpunished, but thou shalt surely drink of it. For I have sworn by myself, saith the Lord,
that Bozrah shall become a desolation, a reproach, a waste, and a curse ," and all the cities thereof shall
be perpetual wastes. I have heard a rumor from the Lord, and an ambassador is sent unto the heathen, saying,
Gather ye together, and come against her, and rise up to the battle. For, lo, I will make thee small
among the heathen, and despised among men. Thy terribleness hath deceived thee, and the pride of thine heart, 0 thou
that dwellest in the clefts of the rock, that holdest the height of the hill ." though thou shouldest make
thy nest as high as the eagle, I will bring thee down from thence, saith the Lord. Also Edom shall
be a desolation : every one that goeth by it shall be astonished, and shall hiss at all the plagues
thereof. As in the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah and the neighbor cities thereof, saith the Lord, no man shall
abide there, neither shall a son of man dwell in it. Behold, he shall come up like a lion from
the swelling of Fordan against the habitation of the strong : but I will suddenly make him run away from
her ." and who is a chosen man, that I may appoint over her .I for who is like me
.I and who will appoint me the time .I and who is that shepherd that will stand before me .I
Therefore hear the counsel of the Lord, that he hath taken against Edom ; and his purposes, that he hath
purposed against the inhabitants of Teman ." Surely the least of the flock shall draw them out ," surely he
shall make their habitations desolate with them, 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 1I 13 1I 20 1I24 ﬂeremiah
4.I The earth is moved at the noise of their fall ." at the cry the noise thereof was heard
in the Red sea. Behold, he shall come up and fly as the eagle, and spread his wings over Bozrah
: and at that day shall the heart of the mighty men of Edom be as the heart of a
woman in her pangs. The Prophecy concerning Damascus concerning Damascus. Hamath is confounded, and Arpad ; for they have heard
evil tidings : they are faint-hearted ; there is sorrow on the sea ," it cannot be quiet. Damascus is
waxed feeble, and turneth herself to flee, and fear hath seized on her : anguish and sorrows have taken her,
as a woman in travail. How is the city of praise not left, the city of my ioy ! Therefore
her young men shall fall in her streets, and all the men of war shall be cut off in that
day, saith the Lord of hosts. And "I will kindle a fire in the wall of Damascus, and it shall
consume the palaces of Ben-hadad. The Prophecy concerning kiedar and Hazor Concerning /<:edar, and concerning the kingdoms of Hazor, which
Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon shall smite, thus saith the Lord ; Arise ye, go up to téedar, and spoil the
men of the east. Their tents and their flocks shall they take away : they shall take to themselves their
curtains, and all their vessels, and their camels ." and they shall cry unto them, Fear is on every side.
Flee, get you far off, dwell deep, 0 ye inhabitants of Hazor, saith the Lord ; for Nebuchadrezzar king of
Babylon hath taken counsel against you, and hath conceived a purpose against you. Arise, get you up unto the wealthy
nation, that dwelleth without care, saith the Lord, which have neither gates nor bars, which dwell alone. 21 22 23
24 25 26 2I 28 2.I 30 31 1I25 ﬂeremiah 50 And their camels shall be a booty, and the
multitude of their cattle a spoil : and I will scatter into all winds them that are in the utmost
corners ; and I will bring their calamity from all sides thereof, saith the Lord. And Hazor shall be a
dwelling for dragons, and a desolation for ever : there shall no man abide there, nor any son of man
dwell in it. The Prophecy concerning Elam The word of the Lord that came to Feremiah the prophet against Elam
in the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah king of Fudah, saying, Thus saith the Lord of hosts ,"
