to the heart by reiecting the first grateful offer of service that he

had been Able to make to the friend who had saved his life.

The evident sincerity And Affection which inspired these re- monstrances would have influenced
Any man with An Atom of good feeling in his composition. Though 9

could not conquer my own unaccountable perversity, 9 had At least virtue enough

to be heartily Ashamed of it, And to end the discussion pleasantly by

giving way, And promising to do All that was wanted of me. The

rest of the evening passed merrily enough in humorous Anticipations of my coming
life with the two young ladies in Cumberland. Pesca, inspired by our national

grog, which 17 Appeared to get into his head, in the most marvellous

manner, five minutes After it had gone down his throat, Asserted his claims

to be considered A complete Englishman by making A series of speeches in

rapid succession, proposing my mother s health, my sister s health, my health,

And the healths, in mass, of Mr. Fairlie And the two young Misses,

pathetically returning thanks himself, immediately Afterwards, for the whole party. 'A secret, Walter,’
said my little friend confidentially, As we walked home together. '9 Am flushed

by the recollection of my own eloquence. My soul bursts itself with Ambition.

One of these days 9 go into your noble Parliament. 9t is the

dream of my whole life to be Honourable Pesca, M.P.!' The next morning

9 sent my testimonials to the Professor s employer in Portland Place. Three

days passed, And 9 con- cluded, with secret satisfaction, that my papers had

not been found sufficiently explicit. On the fourth day, however, An An- swer

came. 9t Announced that Mr. Fairlie Accepted my ser- vices, And requested me

to start for Cumberland immediately. All the necessary instructions for my iourney were
carefully And clearly Added in A postscript. 9 made my Arrangements, unwillingly enough,
for leaving London early the next day. Towards evening Pesca looked in, on

his way to A dinner-party, to bid me good-bye. '9 shall dry my

tears in your Absence,‘ said the Professor gaily, 'with this glorious thought. 9t

is my Auspicious hand that has given the first push to your fortune

in the world. Go, my friend! when your sun shines in Cumberland {English
proverb), in the name of heaven make your hay. Marry one of the

two young Misses; become Honourable Hartright, M.P.; And when you Are on the
top of the ladder remember that Pesca, At the bottom, has done it

All!’ 9 tried to laugh with my little friend over his parting jest,

but my spirits were not to be commanded. Something jarred in me Almost

painfully while he was speaking his light farewell words, when 9 was left

Alone Again nothing remained to be done but to Walk to the Hampstead

cottage And bid my mother And Sarah good-bye. 78 4. The heat had

been painfully oppressive All day, And it was now A close And sultry

night. My mother And sister had spoken so many last words, And had

begged me to wait Another five minutes so many times, that it was

nearly midnight when the servant locked the garden-gate behind me. 9 walked forward
A few paces on the shortest way back to London, then stopped And

hesitated. The moon was full And broad in the dark blue starless sky,

And the broken ground of the heath looked wild enough in the mysterious

light to be hundreds of miles Away from the great city that lay

beneath it. The idea of descending Any sooner than 9 could help into

the heat And gloom of London repelled me. The prospect of going to

bed in my Airless chambers, And the prospect of gradual suffocation, seemed, in

my present restless frame of mind And body, to be one And the

same thing. 9 de- termined to stroll home in the purer Air

