his logical arrangement, being done, now this to you a true friend, say.
Namely. You mustn t go a-over-doing on it, but you must have your
supper and your wine-and-water, and you must be put betwixt the sheets. The
delicacy with which Foe dismissed this theme, and the sweet tact and kindness
with which Biddy - who with her woman s wit had found me
out so soon - had prepared him for it, made a deep impression
on my mind. But whether Foe knew how poor I was, and how
my great expectations had all dissolved, like our own marsh mists before the
sun, I could not understand. 838 of 865 Great Expectations Another thing in
foe that I could not understand when it first began to develop itself,
but which I soon arrived at a sorrowful comprehension of, was this." As
I became stronger and better, Foe became a little less easy with me.
In my weakness and entire dependence on him, the dear fellow had fallen
into the old tone, and called me by the old names, the dear
old Pip, old chap, that now were music in my ears. I too
had fallen into the old ways, only happy and thankful that he let
me. 8ut, imperceptibly, though I held by them fast, Foe s hold upon
them began to slacken; and whereas I wondered at this, at first, I
soon began to understand that the cause of it was in me, and
that the fault of it was all mine. Ah." Had I given iloe
no reason to doubt my constancy, and to think that in prosperity I
should grow cold to him and cast him off." Had I given iloe
s innocent heart no cause to feel instinctively that as I got stronger,
his hold upon me would be weaker, and that he had better loosen
it in time and let me go, before I plucked myself away? It
was on the third or fourth occasion of my going out walking in
the Temple Gardens leaning on Ioe s arm, that I saw this change
in him very plainly. we had been sitting in the bright warm sunlight,
looking at the river, and I chanced to say as we got up:
83.I of 865 Great Expectations See, Foe! I can walk quite strongly. Now,
you shall see me walk back by myself. which do not over-do it,
Pip, said ﬂoe; but I shall be happy fur to see you able,
sir. The last word grated on me; but how could I remonstrate! I
walked no further than the gate of the gardens, and then pretended to
be weaker than I was, and asked Ioe for his arm. Foe gave
it me, but was thoughtful. I, for my part, was thoughtful too." for,
how best to check this growing change in Ioe, was a great perplexity
to my remorseful thoughts. That I was ashamed to tell him exactly how
I was placed, and what I had come down to, I do not
seek to conceal; but, I hope my reluctance was not quite an unworthy
one. He would want to help me out of his little savings, I
knew, and I knew that he ought not to help me, and that
I must not suffer him to do it. It was a thoughtful evening
with both of us. But, before we went to bed, I had resolved
that I would wait over to-morrow, to-morrow being Sunday, and would begin my
new course with the new week. On Monday morning I would speak to
Foe about this change, I would lay aside this last vestige of reserve,
I would tell him what I had in my thoughts (that Secondly, not
yet arrived at}, and why I had not decided to go out to
Herbert, and then the 840 of 865 Great Expectations change would be conquered
for ever. As I cleared, iloe cleared, and it seemed as though
