paid their entrance fee. ‘look at this, matt. there s a curse on this place,‘ debs said to me. ‘what

a cool picture,‘ young /'ake said. ‘it s a witch,‘ his dad answered. ‘if you steal anything from the castle,

you re cursed.‘ ‘there s a looter daddy, can you read it out to me.‘ ‘sure thing, little buddy.‘ he

began. i have paid the ultimate price. i know it is wrong to steal from you, and i am heartily

sorry. i did not believe in the curse, but i do now. i was visiting the castle with my beautiful

wife susie, and i took a little bone. i wanted to return it, but i couldn t. me and my

wife had the most terrible luck. we were nearly hit by a train, drowned in the sea, chased by a

long dead executioner and beaten up in a space of a few hours. i lost the bone that i took.

i had no way to return it to lift the curse. i could not live with the curse, so i

had to give the spanish witch something to appease her, i hope the sacrifice is worth it. ‘Wow, cool dad,

wish we had castles like this back at home.‘ fake ran over to the other side of the room and

looked down a trapdoor. ‘wow, there are bones down here. what does this notice say?‘ his dad walked over and

read the legend. ‘this is the oubliette. it holds the bones of the last two people ever to die in

chillingham castle.‘ matt looked down. took a photograph. nonsense, he thought. half those bones look practically new to me. chillingham
castle exists and is located in the north of northumberland in the top left hand corner of england. it has

featured on scariest places on earth as mentioned in the story, and also on most haunted and ghost hunters international.
it is a fantastic day out. many parts of the story you have ready are true, with only a little

bit of artistic licence thrown in. iohn sage, the executioner, did indeed work and die here and his actions and

the manner of his death are also true. allegedly. if you do visit chillingham, you will hear the ghost stories,

such as the one featuring the blue boy, again, all supposed to be true. and most of all, you will

see the picture of the spanish witch on the antique wardrobe, and you will be able read the looters from

people who have taken items from the castle and later returned them. as far as i know, there should still

be only one set of bones in the oubliette. that is, unless somebody else has taken something recently and misplaced

it. finally, i will say that i m sure that the modern day owners of chillingham would never consider throwing

a person down into the oubliette and leaving them there, not unless it was something really expensive you ve taken.
rachel took one look around the iam-packed auditorium of the diablo convention center and felt the sudden urge to lose
her lunch. no way could she do what cameron expected her to do. the mere thought of it was totally

ridiculous. she glanced at the closest exit sign and opened her mouth to speak. ‘don t even think about it,‘

cameron said from beside her, ‘why?‘ rachel s stomach spun and her cheeks heated as cameron tugged her through a

sea of spandex and sequins. ‘you tossed your back stage pass, remember?‘ cameron s infectious giggle was swallowed by the
sound of hysterical, screaming women. rachel squeezed her eyes closed and swallowed hard. how could i forget? still, she had
to try to change cameron s mind one more time. ‘can t i /'ust buy you a pair of shoes?‘

rachel glanced down at cameron s feet, wrapped in a pair of strappy black sandals that boosted her height at

least six inches. surely the louis vuitton pumps in bergmann s window could provide a tempting incentive. a sly grin
creased cameron s lips. 'nah,‘ she said as she wrinkled her nose and pulled rachel through the crowd. rachel exhaled

in frustration, cameron had managed to talk her into doing something completely out of her comfort zone. cameron had this
bright idea {one of her best, she claimed} to get backstage to meet world-renowned rock star, iaydon hawke, at his
concert. a completely cameron thing to do, but oh so not rachel s modus operandi. cameron tightened her hold on

rachel s elbow. ‘i won t miss this opportunity, not even for you.‘ rachel frowned. although she understood cameron s
excitement, she wasn t being entirely rational. ‘you realize less than 25% of women who attempt this feat actually succeed,
don t you?‘ cameron looked at her like she grew two heads. ‘where on earth did you hear that?‘ ‘i

didn t. i researched it. it s true.‘ cameron shook her head. ‘you really need to relax, rachel.‘ rachel gave

a heavy sigh. ‘there s no guarantee we ll get back there, let alone see hawke.‘ cameron stopped and folded

her arms. ‘first of all, let me remind you that it was you who forced me to orchestrate this mission.‘

rachel flinched as guilt poked her. ‘i know and i m sorry. i was sure you d go back there

without me.‘ rachel tucked a piece of hair behind her ear. ‘if you ll /'ust wait two seconds, i can

run to the hospitality counter and explain. i m sure i can finagle another pass.‘ the mischievous look that overtook
cameron s face made rachel s nerves tremble. ‘too late.‘ cameron dismissed her with a wave of her hand and

nudged her toward the stage. ‘besides, you know as well as i do, i don t care if we see

hawke or not.‘ rachel paused. she knew good and well cameron nursed a huge crush on hawke s drummer, sean

pirelli. and apparently, being the obiect of cameron s raging hormones was a dangerous thing. ‘yes, but what if

