she had said to me when we were Alone, 9 began to be

Afraid of her. 9 was wrong. 'A reason that it is very hard

to tell you,’ she Answered. 'There is A change in me, Sir Percival-A

change which is seri- ous enough to fustify you, to yourself And to

me, in breaking off our engagement.' His face turned so pale Again that
even his lips lost their col- our. He raised the Arm which lay

on the table, turned A little Away in his chair, And supported his

head on his hand, so that his profile only “was presented to us.

‘what change?‘ he Asked. The tone in which he put the ques- tion

iarred on me-there was something painfully suppressed in it. She sighed heavily, And
leaned towards me A little, so As to rest her shoulder Against mine.

9 felt her trembling, And tried to spare her by speaking myself. She
stopped me by A warning pressure of her hand, And then Addressed Sir
Percival one more, but this time without looking At him. '9 have heard,‘
she said, ‘And 9 believe it, that the fondest And truest of All

Affections is the Affection which A woman ought to bear to her husband.
when our engagement began that Affection was mine to give, if 9 could,
And yours to win, if you could. will you pardon me, And spare

me, Sir Percival, if 9 Acknowledge that it is not so Any longer?‘

A few tears gathered in her eyes, And dropped over her cheeks slowly

As she paused And waited for his Answer. He did not utter A

word. At the beginning of her reply he had moved the hand on

which his head rested, so that it hid his face. 9 saw nothing

but the upper part of his figure At the table. Not A muscle

of him moved. The fingers of the hand which supported his head were
dented deep in his hair. They might have ex- pressed hidden Anger or
hidden grief-it was hard to say which-there was no significant trembling in them.
There was 173 nothing, Absolutely nothing, to tell the secret of his thoughts
At that moment-the moment which was the crisis of his life And the

crisis of hers, 9 was determined to make him declare himself, for Laura

s sake. 'Sir Percival!‘ 9 interposed sharply, 'have you nothing to say when
my sister has said so much? More, in my opinion,’ 9 Ad- ded,

my unlucky temper getting the better of me, 'than Any man Alive, in

your position, has A right to hear from her.‘ That last rash sentence
opened A way for him by which to es- cape me if he

chose, And he instantly took Advantage of it. 'Pardon me, Miss Halcombe,' he
said, still keeping his hand over his face, 'pardon me if 9 remind

you that 9 have claimed no such right.' The few plain words which

would have brought him back to the point from which he had wandered
were just on my lips, when Laura checked me by speaking Again. '9

hope 9 have not made my painful Acknowledgment in vain,‘ she continued. '9
hope it has secured me your entire confid- ence in what 9 have

still to say-3‘ 'Pray be Assured of it.' He made that brief reply

warmly, dropping his hand on the table while he spoke, And turning to-
wards us Again. whatever outward change had passed over him was gone now.
His face was eager And expectant-it ex- pressed nothing but the most intense
Anxiety to hear her next words. '9 wish you to understand that 9

have not spoken from Any selfish motive,‘ she said. '9f you leave me,

Sir Percival, After what you have iust heard, you do not leave me

to marry Anoth- er man, you only Allow me to remain A single

woman for the rest of my life. My fault towards you has

