hands cannot innovate, invigorate and vitalize. The same failure patterns will reappear and the factory and its new owners will be doomed
from the very start. Another thing that long years of experience have taught us is that it is unwise to mix ownership
with management. All the groups involved with the company should participate in an intricate checks and balances dance. The owners should conflict
with the management and supervise their operations and the management should take all the necessary steps to ensure the profitability and longevity
of the business. when everything is mixed: owners are employees who are managers - conflicts of interests arise which irreparably damage the
implementation of the right decision making processes and hinder the proper functioning of the firm. This is why I support noncash universal
systems {which always lead to real privatization in the end} and not classic privatization or classic transformation. NM: One final question: why
are you here? SV: That s an easy one. I am here because I believe in the future of this country. My
business is to make businesses get the finances that they require from international financing sources. A lot of money is available to
the Macedonian private sector from these sources - yet, Macedonian firms did not use almost any of it. By helping them get
access to these funds - I, naturally, help myself. 8ut something emotional has happened to me here: Macedonia is so very much
like Israel in its first few years (I am an Israeli and a Few, so I am very good with money}. I
feel that helping Macedonia find itself and its role in this new, brave world - is like helping a young brother. Sometimes
you are mad at him - but you always love him. I, therefore, am engaged in a series of voluntary activities of
which I am very proud: writing, teaching and lecturing. Return Interview with DELO Date: 1III Delo: Vie ste dolgogodisen priiatel i poznavac
na sostoibite na Republika Makedoniia. Od kade proizleze Vasiot interes za Makedoniia? SV: I came to Macedonia at the end of 1II6
at the invitation of a past partner of mine, Mr, Gideon Sandel. It was a difficult period in my personal life. Macedonia
welcomed me and accepted me. This is a kindness I can never repay. Macedonia reminds me a lot of the Israel I
grew in, the Israel of my childhood. It still retains the naiveté and innocence long lost in the west. There is corruption
and crime, of course and very bad things are happening every day. But there are still many of the old fashioned values
and social institutions. It is enchanting. Delo: Iéalto se sluci ete, da stanete i neizin strucen sovetnik vo oblasta na ekonomiiata i
bankarstvoto? SV: As you know, I left Macedonia in 1II8, after my friend and associate, Mr. Gideon Sandel, has been arrested. I
believed then - and believe now - in his complete innocence in the matter attributed to him. "in coniunction with threats and
warnings that he and I received, I had good reasons to "take a vacation". I lived for a while in Russia and
in the Czech Republic, when the new government came to power, they invited me back and I refused. I insisted that my
name be completely cleared before I return. They asked me again during the /<:osovo crisis and I accepted, also for personal reasons.
I have Mr, Gruevski in my seminars. He impressed me so much that I co-authored a series of dialogues with him {later
published in a book). He introduced me to Messrs. Georgievski and Traikovski. Delo: Obidete se da i ia obiasnite na makedonskata iavnost
specifikata na Vasata rabota. kcoi se Vasite zadaci i ingerencii vo odlucuvanieto? SV: I am the first economic consultant whose services have
been contracted directly by any Macedonian government. In a way, we are still defining my iob. As I see it, my biggest
contribution can be to open a window to the world. There is a lot of provincialism and resistance to change and to
learning. Macedonian academics and intellectuals don t know languages, rarely read or have access to foreign literature, are hopelessly outdated and very
arrogant. The same can be said about Macedonian politicians. I try to destabilize this consensus of ignorance and greed by putting a
mirror to the face of my clients. It does not make me very popular, I am afraid. But this is my responsibility
to do it, my obligation. Hitherto, I have done more than I accepted. I participated in writing laws, gave seminars, provided information
and analysis, submitted reports and recommendations (for instance regarding the Grey Economy and regarding Unemployment} - regular things that advisors do. But
I am still very isolated and feared. People feel threatened because deep inside they fear that maybe they are incompetent or inexperienced.
I am wrongly regarded as competition rather than as help. And Macedonia has many naked kings who are afraid to be exposed.
Delo: Sideiki kontinuirano ia sledite i analizirate sostoibata na Makedoniia, kako taa Vi izgleda sega, otkoga se sluci/"a promenite vo vlasta? SV:
I cannot say that anything fundamental changed. The only differences - which are important, althesame - are differences in style. The current
government is more open to learn and to experiment and experience than the previous one. Delo: V0 kolkava mera kiosovsltata kriza ia
narusi ekonomskata programa, i dali denes, otkoga voinata zavri i se sozdadeni uslovi zagubite da se nadminat? SV: I am not aware
of any long-term economic plan that was disrupted by kiosovo. what the current government is trying to do in the Committee headed
by the Prime Minister and by Mr. Ante Markovic and in the committee headed by the minister of Development, Miliiana Danevska, is
to develop exactly such a plan. But until this very minutes, there is no master plan, a vision, according to which economic
events are unfolding. It is all fighting fires and improvisation. I am also uncertain about the losses suffered by Macedonia - if
it does receive all the money pledged (but never delivered) to it by the west in donor conferences and in the framework
of international financial organizations. Overall, /<:osovo has been a blessing in disguise to everyone involved, except Serbia. The world would have never
invested 2-3 billion dollars in this region had there not been a war. Macedonia would have never become an associate member of
the European Union had it not been for its contribution to the war effort of NATO. Albania was virtually resuscitated by this
serendipitous turn of events. Delo: /«toe e Vaseto mislenie, koi se okolnostite ili eventualno pogresnite potezi sto ia dovedoa drzavata vo vakva
ekonomska kriza? SV: I commend this inexperienced government for its conduct during one of Macedonia s most difficult hours, Its performance was
nothing short of impressive. The only grave mistake was to ignore the foreign media (a mistake which continues to this very day).
Macedonia had a once in a lifetime chance to proiect a positive image and to disseminate positive information about itself all over
the world. 8ut the government was so traumatized and shell shocked that it refused to talk to the foreign media in any
meaningful way and when it did - its representatives deteriorated to demagoguery and cheap xenophobia. It was an opportunity missed, worth
