to a new position as he continued to fashion the diagram, which seemed to be the outline of some kind

of bush. ‘you see, except for olorun, the sky god, all our orisa once dwelt on earth, but instead of

dying they became the communal memory of our people. when we call forth one of the gods, we reach into

this shared consciousness where they wait. if a god comes forth, he may for a time take over the body

of one of us as his temporary habitation.‘ he paused and looked up. ‘that s why i wanted you here

tonight. to show you what it means to be yoruba.‘ he straightened and critically surveyed the drawing. his eyes revealed

his satisfaction. on the ground was a complex rendering of an african cotton tree, the representing-image of ogun. its trunk
was flanked on each side by the outline of an elephant tusk, another symbol of the yoruba god, he circled

it for a moment, appraising it, then went to the cache of sacred utensils he had hidden behind the mill

that afternoon and took up a stack of palm fronds. carefully he laid a row along each side of the

diagram. 'that s finished now. next i ll make the symbol for shango. it s simpler.’ he knelt and quickly

began to lay down the outline of a double-headed axe, still using the white powder from the bag. the lines

were steady, flawless. she loved the lithe, deft intensity of his body as he drew his sacred signs-nothing like the

grudging branco artists who had decorated the cathedral in pernambuco with catholic saints, all the while half-drunk on portuguese wine.
'where did you learn all these figures?’ he smiled. 'i ve had much practice, but i was first taught by

my father, years ago in ife.' the drawing was already done. he examined it a moment, approved it, and laid

aside the bag of white powder. she picked it up and took a pinch to her lips, it had the

tangy bitterness of cassava flour. 'now i ll prepare a candle for shango.' he rummaged through the pile. 'but in

a way it s for you too, so i ll find a pure white one, not a bidding candle.’ 'what

do you mean, for me too ?' he seemed not to hear as be lit the taper and placed it

beside the symbol. next he extracted a white kerchief from his waistband and turned to her, 'i ve brought something

for you, a gift, here, let me tie it.‘ he paused to caress her, his fingertips against her cinnamon skin,

then he lovingly pulled the kerchief around her head. he lifted up her long hair, still wet from the rain,

and carefully coiled it under the white cloth. finally he knotted it on top, african style. 'tonight you may discover

you truly are a yoruba woman, so it is well that you look like one.’ abruptly, above the patter of

rain, tame the sound of footfalls in the mud outside. she glanced around and through the dark saw the silhouettes

of the yoruba men from the slave quarters. the first three carried long bundles swathed in heavy brown wraps to

protect them from the rain. they entered single file and nodded in silence to atiba before gathering around the diagrams

on the floor to bow in reverence. after a moment, the men carrying the bundles moved to a clear space

beside the mill and began to unwrap them. as the covering fell away, the fresh goatskin tops of three new

drums sparkled white in the candlelight. she watched the drummers settle into position, each nestling an instrument beneath his left
arm, a curved wooden mallet in his right hand. from somewhere in her past there rose up an identical scene,

years ago in brazil, when all the yoruba, men and women, had gathered to dance. then as now there were

three hourglass-shaped instruments, all held horizontally under the drummer s arm as they were played. the largest, the iya ilu,
was almost three feet long and was held up by a wide shoulder strap, iust as this one was tonight,

the other two, the bata and the go-go, were progressively smaller, and neither was heavy enough to require a supporting
strap. the man holding the iya ilu tonight was obewole, his weathered coffee face rendered darker still by the contrast

of a short grey beard. his muscles were conditioned by decades of swinging a long iron sword; in the fields

he could wield a cane machete as powerfully as any young warrior. he shifted the shoulder strap one last time,

then held out the mallet in readiness and looked toward atiba for a signal to begin. when atiba gave a

nod, a powerful drum roll sounded above the roar of the gale. then obewole began to talk with the drum,

a deep-toned invocation to the ceremonial high gods of the yoruba pantheon, eleggua and olorun. 'omi tutu a eleggua, omi
tutu a mi ileis, olorun modu- pue ...' as the drum spoke directly to the gods, the line of men

passed by atiba and he sprinkled each with liquor from a calabash, flinging droplets from his fingertips like shooting stars
in the candlelight. each man saluted him, their babalawo, by dropping their heads to the ground in front of him

while balanced on their fists, then swinging their bodies right and left, touching each side to the floor in the

traditional yoruba obeisance. the office of babalawo embodied all the struggles, the triumphs, the pride of their race, when the
last man had paid tribute, all three drums suddenly exploded with a powerful rhythm that poured out into the night

and the storm. obewole s mallet resounded against the skin of the large iya ilu, producing a deep, measured cadence-three
strokes, then rest, repeated again and again hypnotically-almost as though he were knocking on the portals of the unseen. next
to him the men holding the two smaller drums inter/'ected syncopated clicks between the iya ilu s throaty booms,

