about filling her own air mattress. five minutes later and breath slightly heaving, they pushed the mattresses out into an
open spot in the water and waded to their knees as the sun was blocked briefly by a thick cloud.
sylvia straddled the air mattress and sat down, pushing with her feet until they wouldn t touch, looking out to
the beach over the end of the yellow mattress that was popped out of the water. holly s orange mattress
drifted closer. at the beach she could see terry s hand gliding over iulia s back as her sister held
her long blonde hair up with one hand. he set the bottle down, stripped off his sunglasses, and suddenly scooped
iulia up with both arms, bridal style, and proceeded to the water with her. sylvia floated on the mattress, watching
her sister s halfhearted attempts at making terry put her down. a second later he paused, then dropped her into
the water, and dove under beside her. "you lost, red," holly said, al?o watching. "got everything wet." sylvia shrugged and
almost tipped herself over. "the lotion makes everything ?o dang slick," she mumbled. they watched terry resurface, stand and push
back his hair. holly said it first. "now he really looks like a vampire. see that peak at his hairline?
classic vampire." holly nodded. "would you stop with the vampire shit?" sylvia squinted at her sister s boyfriend. he did
look like one of those hand?ome, mesmerizing vampires that showed up on all the late night tv movies where the
woman fawned all over ?ome drop dead gorgeous bloodsucker. "bela lugosi never looked like that." "lugosi was just the first;
not the only one." the scene from the bedroom played through sylvia s mind, the one where terry had taken
iulia in his arms as if he were going to sink his teeth into her very neck. she shook her
head. "it s broad daylight. vampires don t go out in the sun. and there re no such things as
vampires, holly." "notice how he never looks directly into the sun?" sylvia looked to her friend, screwing her face into
a knot. "when was the last time you looked directly into the sun, holly sutton?" holly frowned, then shrugged. "you
know what i mean." "and he s got perfect teeth." holly sighed. "i ll bet everything about him is perfect."
sylvia shook her head, gently, ?o she didn t capsize herself, watching her sister enioying an afternoon of delight with
her new boyfriend. "not everything." she recalled when he d told her in the kitchen that he knew she knew.
"not everything." the following week of school was a drop for sylvia. her classmates and teachers began to settle into
a schedule of lockers, cafeteria food, and homework excuses. sylvia saw more of matt than she cared to, and not
because she wandered into the wrong locker room again. it was a traditional tasteless meal at lunch, the usual spaghetti
holly and sylvia were sure had been scraped off leftover high school plates, and the stale rolls that went with
it. holly had gone into chocolate mode as iamie became more attentive at lunch, offering to squeeze the ketchup over
her french fries and unwrap her straw. sylvia sat captivated by the warped middle school concept of going together until
she wanted to throwup. it was a little much, even with the fact that iamie was actually a sweet guy,
pick of the litter of eighth grade, and a basketball hero. well, as close as anyone was going to get
to being a basketball hero in eighth grade. more accurately, he just fumbled all the plays less than everyone else
on the team. "what about matt?" iamie said for the fourth time that week as they sat at the lunch
table. he looked to sylvia expectantly. "please, no." she finished the chocolate milk and sighed over her nachos. a table
away matt s radar must have gone off, and he waved, smiling, elbowing the nerdylooking boy beside him to witness.
"but he s nice," holly added. sylvia shook her head. "he smells like astringent." she made a face as she
looked to where he was running a hand through his reddish brown hair. he caught her gaze and stopped, letting
his arm fall quickly, and knocked over his milk onto his pants. she shook her head again, looking to holly.
"and it s not helping any." "you re gonna ban the boy because he s got complexion issues?" holly shook
her head, nibbling on a fry. sylvia looked to iamie. yup, iamie. no complexion problem there, she thought. not many
problems at all, in fact. against her better iudgment her attention turned to matt who was dabbing at his pants
with a napkin. okay, she thought fairly, a little thin, poor dresser, fashionless, too much hair, but he was nice.
a little ingratiating, she d learned from third hour science class, and a little nasally. "what about lane?" holly suggested.
sylvia lifted an eyebrow, picking a tortilla chip out of her cardboard basket and dipping it in what was passing
for cheese sauce. "lane who?" "brian s ex s kid. number one s kid." holly smiled at the thought, recalling
new year s eve s party. "he s okay." sylvia nodded. "yeah, he s okay." she put the tortilla chip
in her mouth, pretending it was delicious. "he s got a new tattoo." "oh, yeah? where?" "dunno. he got shipped
off to ?ome military boarding school. make a man out him or ?ome shit like that." "he looked like he
was turning out like one to me." holly smiled endearingly to iamie, who d given her a frown at the
statement. "yeah, i guess ?o," sylvia agreed, intent on her nachos. "what i don t get," holly said, dragging a
fry through her mound of ketchup, "is why number one s kids are younger than number two s kids. what
happened there?" "oh, yeah." sylvia shrugged. "number one is al?o brian s number three wife. they married, got divorced,
