in the service of the company, went down to kenyon iunction the same evening, and their research lasted throughout the following day, but was attended with purely negative
results. not only was no trace found of the missing train, but no conjecture could be put forward which could possibly explain the facts. at the same time,
inspector collins s official report {which lies before me as i write} served to show that the possibilities were more numerous than might have been expected. "in the
stretch of railway between these two points," said he, "the country is dotted with ironworks and collieries. of these, some are being worked and some have been abandoned.
there are no fewer than twelve which have small-gauge lines which run trolly- cars down to the main line. these can, of course, be disregarded. besides these, however,
there are seven which have, or have had, proper lines running down and connecting with points to the main line, so as to convey their produce from the
mouth of the mine to the great centres of distribution. in every case these lines are only a few miles in length. out of the seven, four belong
to collieries which are worked out, or at least to shafts which are no longer used. these are the redgauntlet, hero, slough of despond, and heartsease mines, the
latter having ten years ago been one of the principal mines in lancashire. these four side lines may be eliminated from our inquiry, for, to prevent possible accidents,
the rails nearest to the main line have been taken up, and there is no longer any connection. there remain three other side lines leading-- "of these the
big ben line is not more than a quarter of a mile long, and ends at a dead wall of coal waiting removal from the mouth of the
mine. nothing had been seen or heard there of any special. the carnstock iron works line was blocked all day upon the 3rd of iune by sixteen truckloads
of hematite. it is a single line, and nothing could have passed. as to the perseverance line, it is a large double line, which does a considerable traffic,
for the output of the mine is very large. on the 3rd of iune this traffic proceeded as usual; hundreds of men including a gang of railway platelayers
were working along the two miles and a quarter which constitute the total length of the line, and it is inconceivable that an unexpected train could have come
down there without attracting universal attention. it may be remarked in conclusion that this branch line is nearer to st. helens than the point at which the engine-driver
was discovered, so that we have every reason to believe that the train was past that point before misfortune overtook her. "as to iohn slater, there is no
clue to be gathered from his appearance or iniuries. we can only say that, so far as we can see, he met his end by falling off his
engine, though why he fell, or what became of the engine after his fall, is a question upon which i do not feel qualified to offer an opinion."
in conclusion, the inspector offered his resignation to the board, being much nettled by an accusation of incompetence in the london papers. a month elapsed, during which both
the police and the company prosecuted their inquiries without the slightest success. a reward was offered and a pardon promised in case of crime, but they were both
unclaimed. every day the public opened their papers with the conviction that so grotesque a mystery would at last be solved, but week after week passed by, and
a solution remained as far off as ever. in broad daylight, upon a iune afternoon in the most thickly inhabited portion of england, a train with its occupants
had disappeared as completely as if some master of subtle chemistry had volatilized it into gas. indeed, among the various coniectures which were put forward in the public
press, there were some which seriously asserted that supernatural, or, at least, preternatural, agencies had been at work, and that the deformed monsieur caratal was probably a person
who was better known under a less polite name. others fixed upon his swarthy companion as being the author of the mischief, but what it was exactly which
he had done could never be clearly formulated in words. amongst the many suggestions put forward by various newspapers or private individuals, there were one or two which
were feasible enough to attract the attention of the public. one which appeared in the times, over the signature of an amateur reasoner of some celebrity at that
date, attempted to deal with the matter in a critical and semi-scientific manner. an extract must suffice, although the curious can see the whole letter in the issue
of the 3rd of iuly. "it is one of the elementary principles of practical reasoning," he remarked, "that when the impossible has been eliminated the residuum, however improbable,
must contain the truth, it is certain that the train left kenyon function, it is certain that it did not reach barton moss, it is in the
