of leather. "i have more than once received important information through my dreams," said my companion in the didactic manner which he loved to affect. "i make it
a rule now when i am in doubt upon any material point to place the article in question beside me as i sleep, and to hope for some
enlightenment. the process does not appear to me to be very obscure, though it has not yet received the blessing of orthodox science. according to my theory, any
object which has been intimately associated with any supreme paroxysm of human emotion, whether it be toy or pain, will retain a certain atmosphere or association which it
is capable of communicating to a sensitive mind, by a sensitive mind i do not mean an abnormal one, but such a trained and educated mind as you
or i possess." "you mean, for example, that if i slept beside that old sword upon the wall, i might dream of some bloody incident in which that
very sword took part?" "an excellent example, for, as a matter of fact, that sword was used in that fashion by me, and i saw in my sleep
the death of its owner, who perished in a brisk skirmish, which i have been unable to identify, but which occurred at the time of the wars of
the frondists. if you think of it,.some of our popular observances show that the fact has already been recognized by our ancestors, although we, in our wisdom, have
classed it among superstitions." "for example?" "well, the placing of the bride s cake beneath the pillow in order that the sleeper may have pleasant dreams. that is
one of several instances which you will find set forth in a small brochure which i am myself writing upon the subject. but to come back to the
point, i slept one night with this funnel beside me, and i had a dream which certainly throws a curious light upon its use and origin." "what did
you dream?" "i dreamed -- -- " he paused, and an intent look of interest came over his massive face. "by iove, that s well thought of," said
he, "this really will be an exceedingly interesting experiment. you are yourself a psychic subject -- with nerves which respond readily to any impression," "i have never tested
myself in that direction." "then we shall test you tonight. might i ask you as a very great favour, when you occupy that couch tonight, to sleep with
this old funnel placed by the side of your pillow?" the request seemed to me a grotesque one; but i have myself, in my complex nature, a hunger
after all which is bizarre and fantastic, i had not the faintest belief in dacre s theory, nor any hopes for success in such an experiment; yet it
amused me that the experiment should be made. dacre, with great gravity, drew a small stand to the head of my settee, and placed the funnel upon it.
then, after a short conversation, he wished me good night and left me. i sat for some little time smoking by the smouldering fire, and turning over in
my mind the curious incident which had occurred, and the strange experience which might lie before me, sceptical as i was, there was something impressive in the assurance
of dacre s manner, and my extraordinary surroundings, the huge room with the strange and often sinister obiects which were hung round it, struck solemnity into my soul.
finally i undressed, and turning out the lamp, i lay down. after long tossing i fell asleep. let me try to describe as accurately as i can the
scene which came to me in my dreams. it stands out now in my memory more clearly than anything which i have seen with my waking eyes. there
was a room which bore the appearance of a vault. four spandrels from the corners ran up to join a sharp, cup-shaped roof, the architecture was rough, but
very strong. it was evidently part of a great building. three men in black, with curious, top-heavy, black velvet hats, sat in a line upon a red-carpeted dais.
their faces were very solemn and sad. on the left stood two long-gowned men with port-folios in their hands, which seemed to be stuffed with papers. upon the
right, looking toward me, was a small woman with blonde hair and singular, light-blue eyes -- the eyes of a child. she was past her first youth, but
could not yet be called middle- aged, her figure was inclined to stoutness and her bearing was proud and confident. her face was pale, but serene. it was
a curious face, comely and yet feline, with a subtle suggestion of cruelty about the straight, strong little mouth and chubby law. she was draped in some sort
of loose, white gown. beside her stood a thin, eager priest, who whispered in her ear, and continually raised a crucifix before her eyes. she turned her head
and looked fixedly past the crucifix at the three men in black, who were, i felt, her iudges. as i gazed the three men stood up and
