ruined if there s more fighting, more war." "well, you can tell them this. there s going to be war,
all right. if i have to fight with nobody helping me but my own lads." he spurred his horse onto
the grassy slope that led down to the sand. moments later the frightened horses were splashing through the shallows. ahead
was the green shore of barbados. "by christ, there ll be war like they ve never seen. mark it, by
sunrise tomorrow this god damned island is going to be in flames." servant, sir." anthony walrond stood in the shadow
of the oistins breastwork, his hand resting lightly on his sword. edmond calvert was walking slowly up the beach from
the longboat, flanked by iames powlett and richard morris. the hour was half past three in the afternoon, exactly as
agreed. there had to be enough light to get the men and supplies ashore, and then the timely descent of
darkness to shield them. "your punctuality, i trust, portends your constancy in weightier concerns." "and yours, sir, i pray may
do the same." calvert slipped off his dark hat and lightly bowed a greeting. then he turned and indicated the
two men behind him. "you ve met vice admiral powlett. and i understand colonel morris is not entirely unknown to
you." "we ve had some acquaintance in times past." walrond nodded coldly in the direction of morris, but did not
return the commander s perfunctory smile. the old hatred, born of years of fighting in england, flowed between them. "then
shall we to affairs?" calvert turned back and withdrew a packet from his waistcoat. "the supplies we agreed on are
ready. i ve had my chief purser draw up a list for your inspection." walrond took the papers, then glanced
out toward the ships. so it s finally come to this, he thought wistfully. but, god is my witness, we
truly did all any man could ask. there s no turning back now. as he thumbed open the wax seal
of the packet, he noted absently that it was dated today, friday. had all this really come to pass since
only sundown monday, when he had first met powlett, received the initial set of terms from edmond calvert, and begun
negotiations? he had tried his best to counsel reason to the assembly, he told himself, to arrange an honorable treaty
that would preserve the militia. but a handful of hotheads had clamored for hopeless defiance, and prevailed. the only way
to save the island now was to force it to surrender as quickly and painlessly as possible. victory lay in
living to fight another day. he gazed back at the ships of the fleet, and thought of the road that
had brought them to this: the defection of his own regiment, once the finest fighting men in england, the royalist
windwards. monday at sundown he had commandeered the back room of the dolphin tavern, which stood hard by the shore
of oistins bay, and met powlett. through the night emissaries had shuttled terms back and forth between the tavern and
the rainbowe, berthed offshore. by the time the flagship hoisted anchor and made way for open sea at dawn, anthony
walrond held in his hand a document signed by edmond calvert; it provided for the end of the blockade, the
island s right to keep its arms and rule itself in local matters, and a full amnesty for all. the
price, as price there must be, was an agreement to recognize the commonwealth and the appointment of a new governor
and council by calvert. tuesday he had summoned a trusted coterie of his royalist officers to the dolphin and set
forth the terms. they had reviewed them one by one, debated each, then agreed by show of hands that none
more favorable could reasonably be obtained. healths were drunk to the eventual restoration of charles ii to the throne, and
that night a longboat was dispatched to the rainbowe, carrying a signed copy of the agreement. wednesday, as agreed, edmond
calvert had ordered a duplicate copy of the terms forwarded to the assembly, indicating it was his last offer. no
mention was made of the secret negotia-tions that had produced the document. at that meeting of the assembly dalby bedford
had risen to declare he would not allow his own interests to be the cause of a single new death,
that he would accept the terms and resign forthwith if such was the pleasure of the assembly-which was, he said,
a democratic body that must now make its own decision whether to continue fighting or to negotiate. he next moved
that the document be put to a vote. it was narrowly approved by the assembly; an honorable peace seemed within
reach. but then the fabric so carefully sewed was ripped apart. a committee was formed to draw up the statement
of the assembly s response. in an atmosphere of hot spirits and general con-fusion, several of the more militant members
had managed to insert a new clause into the treaty: that "the legal and rightful government of this island shall
remain as it is now established, by law and our own consent." the response was then carried by voice vote
and sent back to calvert, a gauntlet flung across the admiral s face. the defiant faction in the assembly exulted
and drank toasts to the destruction of any who would have peace on the original terms. that night calvert had
delivered a new message to anthony walrond, inviting him to ioin with the forces of the commonwealth-a move, he said,
that would surely induce the assembly to show reason, with this invitation he had inserted an additional offer: he would
endeavor to persuade oliver cromwell to restore the sequestrated estates in england of any royalist officer who consented to assist.
on thursday, anthony held another meeting of the officers of the windward regiment, and they voted enthusiastically to defect to
the side of the fleet. after all, they reasoned, had not an honorable peace already been refused by the
