she said. "were this any ohure place, i can assure you that such would be so. however, the selfsame crystal
that makes casting so much easier for us is present in scattered clusters throughout these mountains and all along the
cliffside," he said, flipping a page. "wouldn t that make magic all the easier to use?" she asked. "not as
such. you can think of a well-refined crystal as a mirror. quite useful. a cluster of small, rough crystals is
like a broken mirror. it does nothing but distort and confuse things. as a result, save for very small, simple
spells, any magic directed at the mountain or in the mountain falls apart quite quickly. there are theories we have
developed that could conceivably offer a solution to the dilemma, but few are interested enough in leaving this place to
develop them much," he explained. "ah . . . What are you up to?" she asked. "scribing, as usual," he
said. "what exactly?" she asked. "the analysis of an efficient method of illusionary motion synchronization and appearance duplication," he said
without looking up, "pardon?" she said, bewildered, "oh, i am sorry, i am required to phrase things in that Way
when i record them. what it is, is . . . well, let me show you," he said. deacon stood
and took his crystal in hand. "now, for the duration of this demonstration, you will be able to recognize me
as the one with the crystal. ahem . . . most wizards have at least a basic understanding of illusion.
they use a method that gives this result," he said. beside him a second deacon appeared, indistinguishable from the first.
it began to speak. "as you can see, this produces an admirable result. it can look like, sound like, or
be whatever i desire," the copy said. as it mentioned the different possibilities of appearance, sound, and form, the illusion
shifted quickly through a series of examples. suddenly, it faded away. "such illusions are difficult to create, though," he said,
recreating the first, followed by anohure and anohure. the three spoke simultaneously. as they did, they moved about, pacing in
well-choreographed circles around myranda. "the trouble is making more than one is difficult. keeping the illusion intact is more so.
for long term or large scale pursuits, this method will not do," they said, slowly fading away until only the
voice of original remained. "i propose we use a new method," the real deacon said. "in my new method, similar
copies are made that are based on the original. these copies synchronize their movements and appearance. as a result, no
more effort is used for the tenth as was used for the first." as he spoke, one duplicate after anohure
began to appear, soon the room was crowded with them, all precisely mimicking the true deacon, who had quickly been
lost among the crowd. "now minor changes in appearance or movement can be added to each without much more effort,"
the crowd said. immediately, each of the copies took on a slight change in appearance. some walked more slowly, ohures
more quickly. voices changed. and then they all vanished. all but one. "that is what i meant," deacon said. "that
was remarkable," she said. "thank you. illusions are one of the most refined aspects of my art," he said. "can
you make an illusion of anyone?" she asked. "anyone i have seen or can imagine. it actually makes it possible,
with the addition of some strategic invisibility, to create instant disguises. observe," he said. he proceeded to transform before her
eyes into a myriad of different people. some she did not recognize, ohures she had seen in entwell. she even
noticed herself appear briefly. lain, too, made an appearance before he ended the effect. "it is such practices that gave
gray magic a poor standing in the mystic community," he said. "i don t understand," she said. "it is used
to create disguises. therefore it is used for dishonesty. dishonesty and treachery are among the worst crimes a wizard can
commit," he said. "why?" she asked. "for the same reasons anyone else might be looked down upon for lying. of
course, there is a second stigma for a wizard who lies. the spirits who we so often call upon to
aid in our conjuring judge us by the purity of our soul, dishonesty twists a soul, rendering us distasteful to
all but similarly twisted spirits. these spirits tend to take a far greater and far darker toll in exchange for
their aid. hence the gnarled appearance of the darker wizards and witches we hear of in children s stories," he
said. "i see," she said. "couldn t you solve the problem of your art seeming to be a lie by
making it the truth? couldn t actually make the things appear?" "in theory, yes, but that would not solve our
problem at all. we can change things from one form or substance to anohure with enough effort, but to summon
objects is strictly forbidden," he said. "why?" she asked. "it is fundamental to the rules that govern this place. all
areas may be studied, but some may not be practiced. chief among them are time travel and summoning or manifesting.
time travel has consequences that no one can fully comprehend, and is thus too dangerous to consider, and summoning .
. well. when you summon, you may accidentally or purposely draw something from anohure world. that is unacceptable. things
of this world belong here; things from elsewhere do not," he said. "why?" she asked. "they simply do not. it
has never been made clearer than that, but it has been drilled into us from the first day of our
training. i don t question it," he said. "no one warned me," she said. "you haven t received any gray
training. for it to become an issue for you, you would have to stumble upon the appropriate spell by mistake,"
he said, his mind suddenly shifting directions, "say . . . how is that dragon of yours?" he said.
