to a few seconds before, when the straining engines had failed and the beech king had torn into the tree
canopy, ripping through the foliage on the way to the forest floor, it seemed like silence. "are you okay, mr.
baxter?" thomas turned to face the steward. his dark face was stained with sweat but his mouth displayed large white
teeth behind a forced smile. "mr. baxter?" "fine," thomas answered. "we must get off the plane." thomas unbuckled his seatbelt,
wondering why he d even bothered to apply it. it didn t save your life; you just got lucky. rising
to his feet, he rocked into the plastic back of the chair in front of him. the plane wasn t
level, it had landed nose down, easily the angle of a steep hill. from the windows, thomas saw that the
wing was gone. only a few struts remained, iutting out into the undergrowth. vines and leaves rested against the small
round windows. "wait here, mr. baxter," the steward said. thomas nodded and glanced back at the rest of the aircraft.
the back section, the tail and part of the cabin were gone. blue sky lashed with leafs and the woven
branches of the highcanopy were all that could be seen. there were four other passengers. an african with several gold
teeth and kaki clothes, a young couple in their late teens or early twenties and a middleaged woman in a
loosefitting yellow blouse and cream trousers. she was the one nearest the opening, the one whose chair was now the
furthest back. there had been more. thomas remembered that at least two people had been on the back row, their
legs stretched out as they relaxed during the flight. they were gone now. all dead. but i m alive. i
can go home. a scream came from beyond the cockpit door. thomas turned towards it, surprised at the ?ound. he
d not expected the pilots to survive, not ?o exposed in the cockpit. he hurried to the door and gripped
the handle. the scream became a voice, a terrible cry. "please, god, help me." thomas opened the door. the cockpit
was wrecked. the windows were obliterated and the metal of the nose cone was twisted and ruined. bits of glass,
metal and pieces of the plastic con?ole covered the carpet, surrounded by leaves. the forest had forced its way inside,
filling the small room with green and brown. there was red as well. a branch had pierced through the back
of the pilot s chair, impaling him where he sat. it was the size of a fence post and its
bark was stained with his innards. blood oozed down the chair s backing. his right arm hung into the centre
of the cockpit, lifeless and still. even without seeing him, thomas knew the pilot was dead. it was the copilot
who d screamed. his chair had broken loose and slid into the con?ole, crushing his legs. at the ?ound of
the door he d turned his head to thomas, his eyes gaping with pain and fear. he was not alone
in the cockpit. between the two seats was what looked like a chimpanzee. except it was much too big. it
was as big as a man, bigger than most. even hunched over, its body sloping forwards with its knuckles flat
on the cabin floor, the creature could look thomas straight in the eye. its hairless face was the size of
a dinner plate, the bone of its forehead protruding far beyond its shadowy eyes, a wide, pinkish scar ran from
the corner of its mouth to its ear. thomas felt as though his feet were pinned to the ground. nailed
in place. he wanted to run but couldn t even turn. the scarred chimp turned to the dead pilot. it
wrapped its padded fingers around the body s outstretched arm and gave it an effortless yank. the cockpit filled with
the crack of bone and the wet, snapping tear of muscle and flesh. the white shirtsleeve ripped, turning crim?on with
blood where the arm had been pulled clean from the shoulder. thomas vomited. holding its prize aloft, the chimp s
lips slid open over its teeth. to thomas, they looked like iagged yellow dominoes. the copilot screamed again. yellow teeth
sunk into the arm, biting away a fistsized chunk. the gun! thomas pulled the revolver from inside his grey waistcoat
and swung it towards the chimp. the gunshot filled the cockpit with noise. acrid smoke wafted from the barrel. the
chimp screeched as a shock of black fur left its shoulder. there was a spray of blood as well, but
thomas knew he d been too hasty. the shot was only a flesh wound. he pulled at the trigger again,
but by the time the chamber had revolved another sixth, the chimp had squeezed out of the empty front window
and escaped into the trees. the bullet ripped uselessly out into the rain forest. "what was that, mr. baxter?" thomas
felt the steward at his side, but was too ab?orbed by the pilot s arm to answer. the chimp had
discarded the appendage when it had fled and the limb rested on the con?ole beneath the window. the steward squeezed
past him and knelt beside the copilot. "mr. lewis, are you all right?" "my legs." "we must get help. is
the radio still working?" "we ve already sent the mayday." "be still, mr. lewis. i will get the first aid
kit." thomas stood aside to let the steward out of the cockpit. the copilot caught his gaze. "i m glad
you had that," he said, eyeing the revolver. "?o am i. what was that thing?" "a chimp?" "too big." "yeah,"
the copilot said. thomas noticed that there was blood in the in/"ured man s mouth, bubbling up from his chest.
his lungs. it lingered in the gullies between his teeth. "but it sure looked like one." a screech spread through
the trees, another one came in reply, close by. thomas looked out through the shattered cockpit window, staring out
