this morning without seeing me." his look was very intent, almost as if he were searching for something; but it
did not disconcert her as she had half-expected to be disconcerted. his eyes were more caressing than dominant /"ust then.
"what if i didn t see you because i didn t dare?" he sald. that gave her confidence. "i should
think you couldn t be so silly as that," she sald with decision. he smiled a little. "thank you, miladi.
then wasn t it--almost equally silly--your word, not mine!--of you to be afraid of me last night?" she felt the
thrust in a moment, and went white, conscious of the weak sick feeling that so often came over her at
the sound of her mother s step when she was in disgrace. he saw her distress, but he allowed several
moments to elapse before he came to the rescue; then lightly, "pray don t let the matter disturb you!" he
sald. "only--for your peace of mind--let me tell you that you really have nothing to fear. out here we live
in fairyland, and no one is in earnest. we just enjoy ourselves, and mrs. grundy simply doesn t exist. we
are not ashamed of being frivolous, and we do whatever we like. and there are no consequences. always remember that,
miss bathurst! there are never any consequences in fairyland." his eyes suddenly laughed at her, and dinah was vastly reassured.
her dismay vanished, leaving a blithe sense of irresponsibility in its place. "i shall remember that," she sald, with her
gay little nod. "i dreamt last night that we were in olympus." "we?" he sald softly. she nodded again, flushed
and laughing, confident that she had received her cue. "and you--were apollo." she saw his eyes change magically, flashing into
swift life, and dropped her own before the mastery that dawned there. "and you," he questioned under his breath, "were
daphne?" "perhaps," she sald enigmatically. after all, flirting was not such a difficult art, and since he had declared that
there could be no consequences, she did not see why she should bury this new-found talent of hers. "what a
charming dream!" he commented lazily. "but you know what happened to daphne when she ran away, don t you?" she
flung him a laughing challenge. "he didn t catch her anyway." "true!" smiled sir eustace. "but have you never wondered
whether it wouldn t have been more sport for her if he had? it wouldn t be very exciting, you
know, to lead the life of a vegetable." "it isn t!" declared dinah, with abrupt sincerity. "oh, you know something
about it, do you?" he sald. "then the modern daphne ought to have too much sense to run away." she
laughed with a touch of wistfulness, "i wonder how she felt about it afterwards." "i wonder," he agreed, tipping the
ash off his cigarette. "it didn t matter so much to apollo, you see. he had plenty to choose from."
dinah s wistfulness vanished in a swift breath of indignation. "really!" she sald. he looked at her. "yes, really," he
told her, with deliberation. "and he didn t need to run after them either. but, possibly," his gaze softened again,
"possibly that was what made him want daphne the most. elusiveness is quite a fascinating quality if it isn t
carried too far. still--" he smiled--"i expect he got over it in the end, you know; but in her case
i am not quite so sure." "i don t suppose he did get ever it," maintained dinah with spirit. "all
the rest must have seemed very cheap afterwards." "perhaps he was more at home with the cheap variety," he suggested
carelessly, his eyes had wandered to the buzzing throng behind her, and she saw a glint of criticism--or was it
merely easy contempt?--dispel the smile with which he had regarded her. his mouth wore a faint but unmistakable sneer. but
in a moment his look returned to her, kindled upon her. "are you for the ice carnival to-night?" he asked.
she drew a quick, eager breath. "oh, i do want to come! but i don t know--yet--if i shall be
allowed." "why ask?" he questioned. she hesitated, then ingenuously she told him her difficulty. "i got into trouble last night
for dancing so late with you. and--and--i may be sent to bed early to make up for it." he frowned.
"do you mean to say you d go?" she coloured vividly. "i in only nineteen, and i have to do
as i m told." "heavens above!" he sald. "you belong to the generation before the last evidently. no girl ever
does as she is told now-a-days. it isn t the thing." "i do," whispered dinah, in dire confusion, "at least--generally."
"and what happens if you don t?" he queried. "do they whip you and put you to bed?" she clenched
her hands hard. "don t!" she sald. "you re only ioking, i know. but--i hate it!" his manner changed in
a moment, became half-quizzical, half-caressing. "poor little brown elf, what a shame! well, come if you can! i shall look
out for you. i may have something to show you." "may you? oh, what?" cried dinah, all eagerness in a
moment. he laughed. there was a provoking hint of mystery in his manner, "ah! that lies in the future, miladi,"
"but tell me!" she persisted. "will You come then?" he asked. "perhaps," she sald. "if i can!" "ah! and perhaps
not!" he sald, "what then?" dinah s mouth grew suddenly firm. "i will come," she sald. "you will?" his keen
eyes held hers with smiling compulsion. "yes, i will." he made a gesture as if he would take her hand,
but restrained himself, and paused to tip the ash once more off his cigarette, "now tell me!" commanded dinah, "i
don t think i will," he sald deliberately. "but you must!" sald dinah. his eyes sought hers again with that
look which she found it impossible to meet. she bent over her cup. "what will you show me?" she
