out of the house, and may be set aside altogether. i have three maid-servants who have been with me a number of years and whose absolute reliability is
quite above suspicion. another, lucy parr, the second waiting-maid, has only been in my service a few months. she came with an excellent character, however, and has always
given me satisfaction. she is a very pretty girl and has attracted admirers who have occasionally hung about the place. that is the only drawback which we have
found to her, but we believe her to be a thoroughly good girl in every way. "so much for the servants. my family itself is so small that
it will not take me long to describe it. i am a widower and have an only son, arthur. he has been a disappointment to me, mr. holmes--
a grievous disappointment. i have no doubt that i am myself to blame. people tell me that i have spoiled him. very likely i have. when my dear
wife died i felt that he was all i had to love. i could not bear to see the smile fade even for a moment from his face.
i have never denied him a wish. perhaps it would have been better for both of us had i been sterner, but i meant it for the best.
"it was naturally my intention that he should succeed me in my business, but he was not of a business turn. he was wild, wayward, and, to speak
the truth, i could not trust him in the handling of large sums of money. when he was young he became a member of an aristocratic club, and
there, having charming manners, he was soon the intimate of a number of men with long purses and expensive habits. he learned to play heavily at cards and
to squander money on the turf, until he had again and again to come to me and implore me to give him an advance upon his allowance, that
he might settle his debts of honor. he tried more than once to break away from the dangerous company which he was keeping, but each time the influence
of his friend, sir george burnwell, was enough to draw him back again. "and, indeed, i could not wonder that such a man as sir george burnwell should
gain an influence over him, for he has frequently brought him to my house, and i have found myself that i could hardly resist the fascination of his
manner. he is older than arthur, a man of the world to his finger-tips, one who had been everywhere, seen everything, a brilliant talker, and a man of
great personal beauty, yet when i think of him in cold blood, far away from the glamour of his presence, 1" am convinced from his cynical speech and
the look which i have caught in his eyes that he is one who should be deeply distrusted. so i think, and so, too, thinks my little mary,
who has a woman s quick insight into character. "and now there is only she to be described. she is my niece; but when my brother died five
years ago and left her alone in the world i adopted her, and have looked upon her ever since as my daughter. she is a sunbeam in my
house--sweet, loving, beautiful, a wonderful manager and housekeeper, yet as tender and quiet and gentle as a woman could be. she is my right hand. i do not
know what i could do without her. in only one matter has she ever gone against my wishes. twice my boy has asked her to marry him, for
he loves her devotedly, but each time she has refused him. i think that if anyone could have drawn him into the right path it would have been
she, and that his marriage might have changed his whole life; but now, alas! it is too late--forever too late." "now, mr. holmes, you know the people who
live under my roof, and i shall continue with my miserable story. "when we were taking coffee in the drawing-room that night after dinner, i told arthur and
mary my experience, and of the precious treasure which we had under our roof, suppressing only the name of my client. lucy parr, who had brought in the
coffee, had, i am sure, left the room; but i cannot swear that the door was closed. mary and arthur were much interested and wished to see the
famous coronet, but i thought it better not to disturb it. " where have you put it? asked arthur. " in my own bureau. " well, i hope
to goodness the house won t be burgled during the night. said he. " it is locked up, i answered. " oh, any old key will fit that
bureau. when i was a youngster i have opened it myself with the key of the box-room cupboard. "he often had a wild way of talking, so that
i thought little of what he said. he followed me to my room, however, that night with a very grave face. " look here, dad, said he
