working together. at least kate and adam were happy, for they were always working together. by tacit agreement, they left
polly the easy housework, and went themselves to the fields to wrestle with the rugged work of a farm. they
thought they "were shielding polly, teaching her a woman s real work, and being kind to her. polly thought they
were together because they liked to be; doing the farm work because it suited them better; while she had known
from babyhood that for some reason her mother did not care for her as she did for adam. she thought
at first that it was because adam was a boy. later, when she noticed her mother watching her even time
she started to speak, and interrupting with the never- failing caution: "now be careful! think before you speak! are you
sure?" she wondered why this should happen to her always, to adam never. she asked adam about it, but adam
did not know. it never occurred to polly to ask her mother, while kate was so uneasy it never occurred
to her that the child would notice or what she would think. the first time polly deviated slightly from the
truth, she and kate had a very terrible time. kate felt fully justified; the child astonished and abused. polly arrived
at the solution of her problem slowly. as she grew older, she saw that her mother, who always was charitable
to evenone else, was repelled by her grandmother, while she loved aunt ollie. older still, polly realized that she was
a reproduction of her grandmother. she had only to look at her to see this; her mother did not like
her grandmother, maybe mother did not like her as well as adam, because she resembled her grandmother. by the time
she was sixteen, polly had arrived at a solution that satisfied her as to why her mother liked adam better,
and always left her alone in the house to endless cooking, dishwashing, sweeping, dusting, washing, and ironing, while she hoed
potatoes, pitched hay, or sheared sheep. polly thought the nicer way would have been to do the housework together and
then go to the fields together; but she was a good soul, so she worked alone and brooded in silence,
and watched up the road for a glimpse of henry peters, who liked to hear her talk, and to whom
it mattered not a mite that her hair was lustreless, her eyes steel coloured, and her nose like that of
a woman he never had seen. in her way, polly admired her mother, loved her, and worked until she was
almost dropping for kate s scant, infrequent words of praise. so polly had to be content in the kitchen. one
day, having finished her work two hours before dinnertime, she sauntered to the front gate. how strange that henry peters
should be at the end of the field ioining their land. when he waved, she waved back. when he climbed
the fence she opened the gate. they met halfway, under the bloomful shade of a red haw. henry wondered who
two men he had seen leaving the bolt gate were, and what they wanted, but he was too polite to
ask. he merely hoped they did not annoy her. oh, no, they were only some men to see mother about
some business, but it was most kind of him to let her know he was looking out for her, she
got so lonely." mother never would let her go to the field with her. of course not! the field was
no place for such a pretty girl; there was enough work in the house for her. his sister should not
work in the field, if he had a sister, and polly should not work there, if she belonged to him;
no-sir-ee! polly looked at henry with shining, young girl eyes, and when he said she was pretty, her blue-gray eyes
softened, her cheeks pinked up, the sun put light in her hair nature had failed to, and lo and behold,
the marvel was wrought -- plain little polly became a thing of beauty. she knew it instantly, because she saw
herself in henry peters eyes. and henry was so amazed when this wonderful transformation took place in little polly, right
there under the red haw tree, that his own eyes grew big and tender, his cheeks flooded with red blood,
his heart shook him, and he drew to full height, and became possessed of an overwhelming desire to dance before
polly, and sing to her. he grew so splendid, polly caught her breath, and then she smiled on him a
very wondering smile, over the great discovery." and henry grew so bewildered he forgot either to dance or sing as
a preliminary. he merely, just merely, reached out and gathered polly in his arms, and held her against him, and
stared down at her wonderful beauty opening right out under his eyes. "little beautiful!" said henry peters in a hushed,
choking voice, "little beautiful!" polly looked up at him. she was even bit as beautiful as he thought her, while
he was so beautiful to polly that she gasped for breath. how did he happen to look as he did,
right under the red haw, in broad daylight? he had been hers, of course, ever since, shy and fearful, she
had first entered bates corners school, and found courage in his broad, encouraging smile. now she smiled on him, the
smile of possession that was in her heart. henry instantly knew she always had belonged to him, so he grasped
her closer, and bent his head. when henry went back to the plow, and polly ran down the road, with
the toy of the world surging in her heart and brain, she knew that she was going to have to
account to her tired, busy mother for being half an hour late with dinner; and he knew he was going
to have to explain to an equally tired father why he was four furrows short of where he should
