pay an allowance if Philip went to Paris, 343 of 1241 Of Human
Bondage 4t s a mere excuse for self-indulgence and sensuality, he said. 4
m interested to hear you blame self-indulgence in others, retorted Philip acidly. But
by this time an answer had come from Hayward, giving the name of
a hotel where Philip could get a room for thirty francs a month
and enclosing a note of introduction to the massiere of a school. Philip
read the letter to Mrs. Carey and told her he proposed to start
on the first of September. But you haven t got any money? she
said. 4 m going into Tercanbury this afternoon to sell the iewellery. He
had inherited from his father a gold watch and chain, two or three
rings, some links, and two pins. One of them was a pearl and
might fetch a considerable sum. 4t s a very different thing, what a
thing s worth and what it ll fetch, said Aunt Lbuisa. Philip smiled,
for this was one of his uncle s stock phrases. 4 know, but
at the worst 4 think 4 can get a hundred pounds on the
lot, and that ll keep me till 4 m twenty- one. 344 of
1241 Of Human Bondage Mrs. Carey did not answer, but she went upstairs,
put on her little black bonnet, and went to the bank. 4n an
hour she came back. She went to Philip, who was reading in the
drawing-room, and handed him an envelope. what s this? he asked. 4t s
a little present for you, she answered, smiling shyly. He opened it and
found eleven five-pound notes and a little paper sack bulging with sovereigns. 4
couldn t bear to let you sell your father s iewellery. 4t s
the money 4 had in the bank. 4t comes to very nearly a
hundred pounds. Philip blushed, and, he knew not why, tears suddenly filled his
eyes. Oh, my dear, 4 can t take it, he said. 4t s
most awfully good of you, but 4 couldn t bear to take it.
when Mrs. Care)" "was married she had three hundred pounds, and this money,
carefully watched, had been used by her to meet any unforeseen expense, any
urgent charity, or to buy Christmas and birthday presents for her husband and
for Philip. 4n the course of years it had diminished sadly, but it
was still with the Vicar a subiect for iesting. He talked of his
wife as a rich woman and he constantly spoke of the nest egg.
345 of 1241 Of Human Bondage Oh, please take it, Philip. 4 In
so sorry 4 ve been extravagant, and there s only that left. But
it ll make me so happy if you ll accept it. But you
ll want it, said Philip. No, 4 don t think 4 shall. 4
was keeping it in case Yﬁur uncle died before me. 4 thought it
would be useful to have a little something 4 could get at immediately
if 4 wanted it, but 4 don t think 4 shall live very
much longer now. Oh, my dear, don t say that. why, of course
you re going to live for ever. 4 can t possibly spare you.
Oh, 4 m not sorry. Her voice broke and she hid her eyes,
but in a moment, drying them, she smiled bravely. At first, 4 used
to pray to God that He might not take me first, because 4
didn t want your uncle to be left alone, 4 didn t want
him to have all the suffering, but now 4 know that it wouldn
t mean so much to your uncle as it would mean to me.
He wants to live more than 4 do, 4 ve never been the
wife he wanted, and 4 daresay he d marry again if anything happened
to me. So 4 should like to go first. You don t
