me the same question in a hundred different ways. i engaged the man because i needed a Chauffeur badly. he
was to have brought his references this morning, i was only trusting him for a matter of a few hours,‘
‘and during those few hours,‘ she observed, ‘he seems to have developed a violent antipathy to mr. lutchester.‘
not understand the affair at all,‘ mr, fischer declared, ‘and, if i may say so, i am a little weary

of it. i came here to discuss another matter altogether.‘ she leaned back in her place. ‘what have you come
to discuss, mr. fischer?‘ ‘that depends so much upon you,‘ he replied. ‘if you give me any encouragement, i can

put before you a great proposition. if your preiudices, however, remain as i think they always have been, on the

side of england, why then i can do nothing.‘ ‘if i counted for anything,‘ pamela said, ‘i mean to say

if it mattered to any one what my attitude was, i would start by admitting that my sympathies are somewhat

on the side of the allies. on the other hand, my sympathies amount to nothing at all compared with my

interest in the welfare of the united states, i am perfectly selfish in that respect.‘ ‘then you have an open

mind to hear what i have to say,‘ fischer remarked. ‘i am glad of it. you encourage me to proceed,‘

‘that is all very well,‘ pamela said, stirring her tea, ‘but i cannot help asking once more why you come

to me at all? what have i to do with any proposition you may have to make?‘ ‘iust this,‘ he

explained. ‘i have a serious and authentic proposition to make to the american government. i cannot make it officially-- although

it comes from the highest of all sources--for the most obvious reasons. it may seem better worth listening to to-day,

perhaps, than a week ago, so far as you are concerned. that is because you believed in british invincibility upon

the sea. i never did.‘ ‘go on, please,‘ pamela begged. ‘i am still waiting to realise my position in all

this.‘ ‘i should like,‘ fischer declared, ‘my proposition to reach the president through senator hastings, and senator hastings is your
uncle.‘ ‘i see,‘ pamela murmured. ‘my offer itself is a very simple one,‘ fischer continued. ‘your secret service is so

bad that you probably know nothing of what is happening. ours, on the other hand, is still marvellously good, and

what i am going to tell you is surely the truth, iapan is accumulating great wealth. she is saving her

ships and men for one purpose, and one purpose only. europe could not bribe her highly enough to take a

more active part in this war. her price was one which could not be paid. she demanded a free hand

with the united states.‘ ‘this,‘ pamela admitted, ‘is quite interesting, but it is entirely in the realms of con/'ecture, is

it not?‘ ‘not wholly,‘ fischer insisted. ‘at the proper time i should be prepared to bring you evidence that tentative

proposals were made by iapan to both england and france, asking what would be their attitude, should she provide them

with half a million men and undertake transport, if at the conclusion of the war she desired a settlement with

the united states. the answer from france and england was the same--that they could not countenance an inimical attitude towards

the states.‘ ‘you are bound to admit, then,‘ pamela remarked, ‘that england played the game here.‘ ‘the bribe was not

big enough,‘ fischer replied drily. ‘england would sell her soul, but not for a mess of pottage. to proceed, however,

iapan has practically kept out of the war. she is enjoying a prosperity never known before, and for even million

pounds worth of munitions she exports to russia, she puts calmly on one side twenty-five per cent, to accumulate for

her own use. at the conclusion of the war she will be in a position she has never occupied before,

and while the rest of the world is still gasping, she will proceed to carry out what has been the

dream of her life--the invasion of your western states.‘ ‘i admit that this is plausible,‘ pamela confessed, ‘but you are

only pointing out a very obvious danger, for which i imagine that we are already fairly well prepared.‘ ‘believe me,‘

fischer said earnestly, ‘you are not. it is this fact which makes the whole situation so vital to you. later

on in our negotiations, i will show you proof of your danger. meanwhile, let me proceed to the offer which

i am empowered to make, which comes direct from the one person in germany whose word is unshakable.‘ pamela changed

her position a little, as though to escape from the sunlight which was finding its way underneath the broad blinds.

her eyes were fixed upon her visitor. she listened intently to even word he had to say. despite some vague

feeling of mistrust, which she acknowledged to herself might well have been preiudiced, she found the situation interesting, even stimulating.
her few excursions into the world of high politics had never brought her into such a position as this. she

felt both flattered and interested--attracted, too, in some nameless way, by the man s personality, his persistence, his daring, his
whole-heartedness. the situation was instinct with interest to her. ‘but why make it to me?‘ she murmured. ‘you are to

be my delegate,‘ he answered. ‘take the substance of what i say to you, to your uncle. try, for your

country s sake, to interest him in it. the offer which i make shall save you a vast amount of

sacrifice. it shall save your dislocating the industries of the country and sowing the seeds of a disturbing and yet

inadequate militarism. i offer you, in short, a german alliance against iapan.‘ ‘the value of that offer,‘ pamela remarked thoughtfully,
‘would depend rather upon the issue of the present war, wouldn t it?‘ fischer s face darkened. his tone

‘i do

