myself. we are shipwrecked travelers, but it may be important to state that we have taken no part in the
war," "that matters little!" was the brutal answer of kara-tete. "even englishman is an enemy. your people invaded our island!
they robbed our fields.-" they burned our villages!" "they Were wrong!" said glenarvan, quietly. "i say so, because i think
it, not because i am in your power." "listen," said kai-koumou, "the tohonga, the chief priest of noui-atoua has fallen
into the hands of your brethren; he is a prisoner among the pakekas. our deity has commanded us to ransom
him. for my own part, i would rather have torn out your heart, i would have stuck your head, and
those of your companions, on the posts of that palisade. but noui-atoua has spoken." as he uttered these words, kai-koumou,
who till now had been quite unmoved, trembled with rage, and his features expressed intense ferocity. then after a few
minutes interval he proceeded more calmly, "do you think the english will exchange you for our tohonga?" glenarvan hesitated, all
the while watching the maori chief. "i do not know," said he, after a moment of silence. "speak," returned kai-koumou,
"is your life worth that of our tohonga?" "no," replied glenarvan. "i am neither a chief nor a priest among
my own people." paganel, petrified at this reply, looked at glenarvan in amazement. kai-koumou appeared equally astonished. "you doubt it
then?" said he. "i do not know," replied glenarvan. "your people will not accept you as an exchange for tohonga?"
"me alone? no," repeated glenarvan. "all of us perhaps they might." "our maori custom," replied kai-koumou, "is head for head."
"offer first these ladies in exchange for your priest," said glenarvan, pointing to lady helena and mary grant. lady helena
was about to interrupt him. but the ma/"or held her back. "those two ladies," continued glenarvan, bowing respectfully toward lady
helena and mary grant, "are personages of rank in their own country." the warrior gazed coldly at his prisoner. an
evil smile relaxed his lips for a moment; then he controlled himself, and in a voice of ill-concealed anger: "do
you hope to deceive kai-koumou with lying words, accursed pakeka? can not the eyes of kai-koumou read hearts?" and pointing
to lady helena: "that is your wife?" he said. "no! mine.-" exclaimed kara-tete. and then pushing his prisoners aside, he
laid his hand on the shoulder of lady helena, who turned pale at his touch. "edward." cried the unfortunate woman
in terror. glenarvan, without a word, raised his arm, a shot! and kara-tete fell at his feet. the sound brought
a crowd of natives to the spot. a hundred arms were ready, and glenarvan s revolver was snatched from him.
kai-koumou glanced at glenarvan with a curious expression: then with one hand protecting glenarvan, with the other he waved off
the crowd who were rushing on the party. at last his voice was heard above the tumult. "taboo! taboo!" he
shouted. at that word the crowd stood still before glenarvan and his companions, who for the time were preserved by
a supernatural influence. a few minutes after they were re-conducted to ware-atoua, which was their prison. but robert grant and
paganel were not with them. kai-koumou, as frequently happens among the maories, joined the title of ariki to that of
tribal chief. he was invested with the dignity of priest, and, as such, he had the power to throw over
persons or things the superstitious protection of the "taboo." the "taboo," which is common to all the polynesian races, has
the primary effect of isolating the "tabooed" person and preventing the use of "tabooed" things. according to the maori doctrine,
anyone who laid sacrilegious hands on what had been declared "taboo," would be punished with death by the insulted deity,
and even if the god delayed the vindication of his power, the priests took care to accelerate his vengeance. by
the chiefs, the "taboo" is made a political engine, except in some cases, for domestic reasons. for instance, a native
is tabooed for several days when his hair is cut; when he is tattooed; when he is building a canoe,
or a house; when he is seriously ill, and when he is dead. if excessive consumption threatens to exterminate the
fish of a river, or ruin the early crop of sweet potatoes, these things are put under the protection of
the taboo. if a chief wishes to clear his house of hangers-on, he taboos it; if an english trader displeases
him he is tabooed. his interdict has the effect of the old royal "veto." if an obiect is tabooed, no
one can touch it with impunity. when a native is under the interdict, certain aliments are denied him for a
prescribed period. if he is relieved, as regards the severe diet, his slaves feed him with the viands he is
forbidden to touch with his hands; if he is poor and has no slaves, he has to take up the
food with his mouth, like an animal. in short, the most trifling acts of the maories are directed and modified
by this singular custom, the deity is brought into constant contact with their daily life. the taboo has the same
weight as a law; or rather, the code of the maories, indisputable and undisputed, is comprised in the frequent applications
of the taboo. as to the prisoners confined in the ware-atoua, it was an arbitrary taboo which had saved them
from the fury of the tribe. some of the natives, friends and partisans of kai-koumou, desisted at once on hearing
their chief s voice, and protected the captives from the rest. glenarvan cherished no illusive hopes as to his own
fate; nothing but his death could atone for the murder of a chief, and among these people death was only
the concluding act of a martyrdom of torture. glenarvan, therefore, was fully prepared to pay the penalty of the righteous
indignation that nerved his arm, but he hoped that the wrath of kai-koumou would not extend beyond himself. what
