lip, roger was pleased with the world and his place in it. he could imagine nowhere he would rather be
than cruising through the desert with his best friends. he pressed his forehead against the window to get a better
look outside and was surprised at how cold the glass was against his skin, but this also was pleasing. in
the desert, it was noticeably dark. night was omnipresent. the view out the window revealed a world of blackness with
no visible horizon. in contrast, by craning his neck upwards, roger could see a sky filled with more stars than
he could hope to comprehend. though it was windy outside, the bmw muted everything from the external environment. the world
appeared perfectly still from inside the car, as if frozen in time. strangely, there were no other vehicles within a
quarter of a mile in either direction. as if to take advantage of the clearing, a tumbleweed nearly the size
of a small car blew across the freeway just two hundred feet in front of the oncoming bmw, but no
one noticed it. roger leaned back and used the back of his hand to wipe away the steam his forehead
had imparted on the window. when he was done, he saw the iconic street sign for zzyzx road fly by.
on their first trips to vegas, this sign was always pointed out as some kind of important landmark. once, on
a previous trip, they exited the freeway here to see what this mysterious road was all about. had they researched
it, they would have learned that the name was coined in 1I44 by curtis howe springer who claimed it to
be the last word in the english language. mr. springer opened a health spa and sold bottled water from nearby
springs to desert travelers, but was eventually arrested for misuse of the land and alleged food and drug violations. as
of 2006, the land surrounding zzyzx was under control of the bureau of land management, who allowed california state university
to manage it and conduct desert studies, but as far as the guys in the bmw knew, there was nothing
of interest on zzyzx road. in fact, the paved portion ended fairly quickly before an unpromising dirt road took its
place. it was all kind of a tease unless you were the type of person who wanted to leave the
conventional route and venture alone into the unknown vastness of the desert. on this night, there was no comment made
about the strangely named street. it too moved into the past. in the summer of 2000, roger worked two iobs.
wednesdays, fridays and saturdays, he bartended at moose mcgillicutty s in pacific beach, and thursdays and sundays he worked as
a valet, parking cars for the chart house in del mar. monday and tuesday were his days off, used primarily
for surfing, golfing, sleeping and going to the indian casinos. between the two /"obs, he was pulling in about $1,400
a week, very little of which was reported to the internal revenue service. he lived with a roommate in a
simple two-bedroom apartment in pacific beach and tended to date the kind of girls who were not expensive to date.
therefore, he had plenty of money for whatever he wanted to do. due to alex s relentless prodding, he even
opened checking and savings accounts at wells fargo and managed to sock away $5,000. roger felt relatively wealthy, but he
noticed his new friend wayne, a fellow parking valet, was really rolling in cash. in the last month, wayne had
taken his girlfriend on vacation to australia, bought a rolex, and bragged of winning three grand on a single straight
bet on a recent padres game. wayne also took roger and one of the other guys to dinner and drinks
at dakota grill downtown and picked up the tab. it was that night, after several cocktails, that roger learned where
the cash was coming from. apparently, the trip to australia was arranged by one of the customers from the chart
house. on the last day of the trip, wayne was instructed to meet a man at the beach who gave
him a stuffed koala bear to take back to san diego. inside the cute and fuzzy bear were five kilograms
of pure cocaine. for taking the return trip with the koala, wayne was paid $15,000 plus his expenses for the
trip, wayne told roger he could arrange for him to take the same trip next month and would cover his
valet shifts. then wayne would go again the following month. he pointed out that his boss in the arrangement preferred
to have a rotation rather than just one person. wayne was very convincing about how easy the whole thing was,
and about how nice the cash was. additionally, he pointed out that roger could probably talk andrea, one of the
bartenders, into taking the trip with him. roger had a crush on andrea all summer but couldn t get past
the simple flirting stage. wayne painted an enticing picture of the two of them enjoying the sydney beaches, which he
assured roger were even more appealing than those in san diego. the whole idea was very tempting. roger told wayne
he would probably do it but wanted a day to think about it. as fortune would have it, roger was
scheduled to play golf the next day with gary. he brought up the idea during the sixth hole of the
torrey pines north course, a downhill par three with an unbeatable view of the pacific. gary, who already had his
ball teed up, suddenly lost interest in golf and the beauty of the surroundings. he stepped away from the tee-box
and offered his opinion. gary." "roger, no funnying way. do not do this under any circumstances." roger: "it sounds pretty
easy." gary: "it doesn t matter. you do not want to be a drug dealer. this could funny up your
whole life. listen to me. do not do it." that was the end of the conversation for the moment.
