time miller left, i had to get ready for apple days, and get back to the real world. well, as
much of the real world as you can get dressing up like a princess, derrick signed the paperwork, said nice
things to the nurse and doctor and took himself out of the clinic as quickly as he could. the day
had turned warmer than the last few, and the sun felt good on his face, he stood for a moment
in the open air, breathing in. good air. no taste of cars, no sounds of yelling like down in florida.
he felt peace for the first time in years. derrick spotted a café about three blocks away. good. he hadn
t called his kids yet. he had spent the night at the clinic, and even half-drugged he knew he shouldn
t call and talk to them. he had spoken, briefly to ann, so she knew what had happened, but not
his kids. they knew hospital sounds too well. he didn t want to scare them. he felt like he d
been dragged through the countryside by a truck, rather than by ginger ayres. he knew he wouldn t have survived
without her and he needed to thank her. he d be going back to redlin soon, and for some odd
reason that made him smile. he reached the cafe as some others came out. he held the door for the
older couple who were leaving. they smiled and thanked him, and then the guy caught the door for him, seeing
his arm in a sling. derrick smiled and went in. the place smelled good. he d have breakfast after he
talked to the kids. and he d guessed right. they had a phone in the corner. the kids came running
to the phone, Vblling and too boisterous worried, he knew, but they calmed after he joked with them for a
couple minutes. he could hear the relief in their voices. then he asked to talk to their aunt. "do what
you need to take them to hawaii," he said, swallowing afterwards. "i think they ll have a good time," "derrick,
stop lying to yourself." she sounded a little more stern than normal. "share a little of this time with your
kids, because they re going to grow up fast. they deserve to have some happy memories, don t you think?"
"yes. okay. i ll think about it," he said, feeling like he didn t dare say anything else without risking
a lecture. besides, she was right. "good then. how are you doing." "better. i ll be here for a few
more days. maybe a week or more. i want to take care of my grandfather s things. get a closure
here." "who are you lying to this time?" ann asked. "i ll talk to you later. go tell the kids
we re all going on vacation together. let me know when and i ll make certain i have the time
off." "that s great! wonderful!" she laughed. "i ll talk to you soon. be careful!" she hung up before he
did. derrick couldn t imagine why she had sounded so excited about him going along with them. she d been
right about something important, though. he needed to stop putting distance between himself and his kids. he didn t intend
to yank them out of their life with their aunt and uncle, but things needed to change, and a sign
of all the changes came in the café just as the waitress led him to a table, miller gave a
wave and came over, sitting down without an invitation. ten years ago... well, he d been a different person ten
years ago. "you re looking better today mr. weston," he said with a grin. derrick shook his head. "i am
not a weston you know. i never was one. my mother married tom weston years after i was born." "oh.
yeah. i knew that." miller frowned. "why did evenone call you weston, then?" "tom wouldn t allow them to call
me anything else, not at home, not a school you didn t fight tom weston in those days. it wasn
t worth the harassment." "so what is your name?" he grinned. "derrick dare." miller laughed. "well that suits you far
better than weston. and there s a lot of dares around redlin." "i wouldn t know. i don t know
anything about my father. i don t remember him at all. my mother told me he had been in the
forces or something, and died stationed somewhere else. never came home." "are you going to try and track him down?"
"yeah, later, probably. am i going to have access to my grandfather s things now?" "i think so," miller replied,
he frowned still. "derrick dare. i should have thought about your name before now." derrick gave a little shrug and
regretted the pull on his wounded shoulder. the waitress brought coffee, eggs, bacon and toast for derrick and fetched another
cup for miller. he apparently didn t intend to go, and derrick realized he didn t even mind the company.
they d both gone a long ways since high school. "we got tom and iunior shipped off this morning. markie,
sally, reba and shep will go this afternoon," miller said after his coffee arrived. "i came to tell you at
the hospital, but you d already left. i didn t think you d have gone far, especially without a car."
"is ginger all right?" "she s fine," miller said. "i ran by there this morning and she s getting ready
for her part in the apple days festivities. i thought i d give you a ride back to redlin and
your car. i hear they got it fixed. yes. changes. "that would be great. thank you." the people in charge
of the decorations had outdone themselves this year. a half dozen trees stood in the auditorium, all of them decorated
with paper leaves and real apples. a huge backdrop stood at the far end, painted to look like the
