the indians were to have the remainder as a reward for their services and as payment for taking our letters back to the amazon. some hours later we
saw them in single file far out upon the plain, each with a bundle on his head, making their way back along the path we had come. zambo
occupied our little tent at the base of the pinnacle, and there he remained, our one link with the world below. and now we had to decide upon
our immediate movements. we shifted our position from among the tick-laden bushes until we came to a small clearing thickly surrounded by trees upon all sides. there were
some flat slabs of rock in the center, with an excellent well close by, and there we sat in cleanly comfort while we made our first plans for
the invasion of this new country. birds were calling among the foliage--especially one with a peculiar whooping cry which was new to us--but beyond these sounds there were
no signs of life. our first care was to make some sort of list of our own stores, so that we might know what we had to rely
upon. what with the things we had ourselves brought up and those which zambo had sent across on the rope, we were fairly well supplied. most important of
all, in view of the dangers which might surround us, we had our four rifles and one thousand three hundred rounds, also a shot-gun, but not more than
a hundred and fifty medium pellet cartridges. in the matter of provisions we had enough to last for several weeks, with a sufficiency of tobacco and a few
scientific implements, including a large telescope and a good field-glass. all these things we collected together in the clearing, and as a first precaution, we cut down with
our hatchet and knives a number of thorny bushes, which we piled round in a circle some fifteen yards in diameter. this was to be our headquarters for
the time--our place of refuge against sudden danger and the guard-house for our stores. fort challenger, we called it. it was midday before we had made ourselves secure,
but the heat was not oppressive, and the general character of the plateau, both in its temperature and in its vegetation, was almost temperate. the beech, the oak,
and even the birch were to be found among the tangle of trees which girt us in. one huge gingko tree, topping all the others, shot its great
limbs and maidenhair foliage over the fort which we had constructed. in its shade we continued our discussion, while lord John, who had quickly taken command in the
hour of action, gave us his views. "so long as neither man nor beast has seen or heard us, we are safe," said he. "from the time they
know we are here our troubles begin. there are no signs that they have found us out as yet. so our game surely is to lie low for
a time and spy out the land. we want to have a good look at our neighbors before we get on visitin terms." "but we must advance," i
ventured to remark. "by all means, sonny my boy." we will advance. but with common sense. we must never go so far that we can t get back
to our base. above all, we must never, unless it is life or death, fire off our guns." "but you fired yesterday," said summerlee. "well, it couldn t
be helped. however, the wind was strong and blew outwards. it is not likely that the sound could have traveled far into the plateau. by the way, what
shall we call this place? i suppose it is up to us to give it a name?" there were several suggestions, more or less happy, but challenger s
was final. "it can only have one name," said he. "it is called after the pioneer who discovered it. it is maple white land." maple white land it
became, and so it is named in that chart which has become my special task. so it will, i trust, appear in the atlas of the future. the
peaceful penetration of maple white land was the pressing sub/"ect before us. we had the evidence of our own eyes that the place was inhabited by some unknown
creatures, and there was that of maple white s sketch-book to show that more dreadful and more dangerous monsters might still appear. that there might also prove to
be human occupants and that they were of a malevolent character was suggested by the skeleton impaled upon the bamboos, which could not have got there had it
not been dropped from above. our situation, stranded without possibility of escape in such a land, was clearly full of danger, and our reasons endorsed every measure of
caution which lord iohn s experience could suggest. yet it was surely impossible that we should halt on the edge of this world of mystery when our very
souls were tingling with impatience to push forward and to pluck the heart from it. we therefore blocked the entrance to our zareba by filling it up
