noise level was so high that it produced pain and disrupted the pilot s concentration. he had drawn up plans
for several possible dampening shields for the gear openings, but the manufacturing section had all but closed down and the
shields remained unbuilt. mike walked into the maintenance section and found only the section chief working. he asked the chief
if he could build the sound shields out of plywood for the next test flight. the chief reported that using
plywood on the space plane seemed inappropriate but mike explained how the shields worked only as sound baffles and were
in a low pressure region. the chief agreed and they build the sound shields out of 2 inch plywood. they
then installed them with simple hardware to the sides of the landing gear so that they partially divided the gear
opening, hopefully preventing the harmonic. the test pilots inspected the installation and shook their heads but agreed to the flight.
the takeoff was normal and the gear came up normally. they accelerated too just below mach 1 and then after
trial maneuvers returned to boeing field for a landing approach. as they slowed to "gear down" speed they unconsciously clenched
their teeth expecting the bowling vibration to set in. they were amazed at the lack of noise and excitedly called
mike at boeing to congratulate him. after landing they taxied back to the hangar, where mike and the maintenance chief
were waiting. as soon as the engines were shut down, mike ran out to inspect the plywood shields. they were
intact and the experiment a success. when administration finally read the test reports, they were in an uproar over the
unorthodox methods mike had used. the labor union was even more upset because of the inappropriate use of management labor
to Construct the sound shields. after mike had listened to the complaints and admonishments he announced, "enough is enough and
i quit." the administrator looked shocked and said, "mike as head proiect engineer you cannot just quit." mike laughed and
left. as mike was leaving the parking lot, he decided to stop at the local watering hole. as usual, several
of the engineering staff were on hand, fortifying themselves for the drive home. the iunior engineers acknowledged mike as he
entered, but instead of ioining their group he sat at a table by himself. mike had a few beers but
found no solace in the alcohol and he decided to leave. as he was leaving, the proiect manager came in
and saw mike. mike wanted to avoid him but he could not leave without passing him. they ended up at
the table together. mike was asked why he had blown up and quit. mike responded, "i had enough b.s. and
figured that it was time for me to make a change." the proiect manager asked him to reconsider saying that
the project really needed his skills and that administration would leave him alone. mike genuinely appreciated the offer but reiected
it. he said, "this proiect is almost done and i need to take some time to figure out what i
want to do. i have not yet taken time to recover from my divorce, which i did not want in
the first place. it was that damn church, which brainwashed tisch into believing that my work was evil, causing her
to divorce me. now is a good time for me to Work on my own life." he was uncertain as
to his future, but he the comet was spied by several university astronomers almost simultaneously. its projected mass and course
were analyzed and debated over the internet with everyone listening. the speed of the comet was not impressive by astronomical
standards but a million kilometers per hour far exceeded human concepts of speed. the proiected course of the comet appeared
to intersect the orbit of mars, thereby threatening a collision with mars. when asked, the visitor replied that the thin
atmosphere of mars would be used as a breaking mechanism. the reduced gravity would hopefully not tear the comet apart
as would braking around iupiter. the sling effect would redirect the comet and modify the course so that the comet
would be trap!"-Nd into earth s gravitational well and enter earth orbit. from first sighting it was a few months
before the comet approached mars. the space telescopes were not needed to appreciate the comet s interaction with mars. for
a very 5hort time mars glowed as a miniature red sun. the direct effect on mars was to create tremendous
storms with the red dust clouds obscuring the planet surface. rain fell on the surface of mars for the first
time in many millennium. the orbit wobbled slightly with the contact, but stayed stable. the comet survived the encounter, but
was noticeably smaller following the interaction. the lost mass contributed directly to the atmosphere of mars. the comet was now
heading directly toward earth. the hairy comma surrounding the nucleus visually enlarged the head of the comet with the elongated
tail pointing away from the solar wind. the tail was very dense following the mars interaction, but the nucleus gradually
reclaimed much of the mass which had been torn free. the comet was visibly smaller. the maiority of the change
was due to the loss of the comma during the breaking maneuver; the friction stripped the nucleus of all surface
materials. the sight of the comet approaching earth created a revival of the end of the world scenario. the visitor
was careful to explain the traiectory ghanges that were required to insure proper orbit. the minimal change would require significant
force and the visitor gave the u.n. the choice to make the changes using a small nuclear weapon or to
allow it to make the change. after significant debate the assembly requested that the visitor take responsibility for the trajectory
corrections. the visitor accepted the responsibility and dispatched a small rocket that met the comet half way to earth. the
explosion was witnessed by the space telescopes, but could not be seen from earth. the resulting change in traiectory
