in from all the rest of the world as they surely were in yonder valley. without at all betraying the

exile, gillespie spoke of the lake and its mighty whirlpool, then learned that the indians really made semi-annual trips thither
for the purpose of laying in a supply of dried fish for the winter s consumption, as the night waned,

preparations were made for sleeping, although it was agreed between the brothers that one or the other should stand guard

in regular order. ‘not that i really believe the fellow would play us dirt, even with every thance laid open,‘

waldo admitted. ‘still, it s what uncle phaeton would advise, and we can t well do less than follow his

will, bruno.‘ ‘since we broke it so completely by tackling the grizzly,‘ with a brief laugh. ‘that s all right,

too. of course we d ought to ve skulked away like a couple of egg-sucking curs, but we didn t,

and i m mightily glad of it, too. for ixtli--what a name that is to go to bed with every

night, though-’--for ixtli is iust about as white as they make em, nowadays; you hear me blow my bazoo?‘ and

so the long night wore its length along, the brothers taking turns at keeping watch and ward, but the aztec

slumbering peacefully through all, looking the least dangerous of all possible captives. and after this light even the cautious bruno
began to regard him ere the first stroke of coming dawn could be seen above the eastern hills. not being

positive iust where the air-ship would put in an appearance, since professor featherwit had, perforce, left that question open, to
be decided by circumstances over which he might have no control, each guard in turn devoted considerable attention to the
upper regions, hoping to glimpse the aerostat, and holding matches in readiness to raise a flare by way of alighting

signal. but it was not until the early dawn that bruno caught sight of the air-ship, iust skimming the tree-tops,

the better to escape observation by any indian lookout. after that the rest came easily enough. a couple of blazing

matches held aloft proved sufficient cue to the professor, and soon thereafter the flying-machine was safely brought to land, so
gently that the slumbers of the young aztec were undisturbed. bruno gave a hasty word of warning and explanation combined,
even before he extended a welcoming hand towards mr. edgecombe, who certainly appeared all the better for his encounter with
people of his own race. professor featherwit took a keen, eager look at the slumbering redskin, then drew silently back,

to whisper in bruno s ear: ‘guard well your tongue, lad. i have told him nothing, as yet, and we

must consult together before breaking the news. for now we have had no rest, so i believe we would better

lie down for an hour or two.‘ mr. edgecombe appeared to be perfectly willing to do this, and soon the

wearied men were wrapped in blankets and sleeping peacefully. long before their lids unclosed, bruno had an appetising meal in
readiness, although the others had broken fast long before, and ixtli, his hands tightly clasped behind his back, as a

child is wont to resist temptation, was inspecting the air-ship in awed silence. taking advantage of this preoccupation, bruno quickly
yet clearly explained to his uncle all that had happened, showing that by playing a more prudent part the young

warrior must inevitably have perished. then, making sure cooper edgecombe was not near enough to catch his words, bruno told
in brief the information gleaned from ixtli concerning the children of the sun, whom he and waldo more than suspected

must be the long-lost wife and daughter of the exiled aeronaut. as might have been expected, professor featherwit was deeply
stirred by all this, fidgeting nervously while keeping alert ears, with difficulty smothering the ejaculations which fought for exit through
his lips. after satisfying his craving for food, the professor led the young aztec apart from the rest of the

party, speaking kindly and sympathetically until he had won a fair share of liking for his own, then broaching the

subiect of the sun children. after this it was by no means a difficult matter to get at the seat

of trouble, and little by little featherwit satisfied himself that ixtli would do all, dare all, for the sake of

benefiting the woman and maiden who had treated him so kindly. at a covert sign from the professor, bruno came

to Join in the talk, and his sympathy made the young aztec even more communicative. and ixtli spoke more at

length concerning tlacopa, the paba, and another enemy whom the children of the sun had nearly equal cause to fear,

one huatzin, or prince hua, chiefest among the mighty warriors of the aztecan clans. this evil prince had for years

past sought victo for his bride, while his son, iocetl, tried in vain to win the heart-smiles of the fair

glady, victo s daughter, and, through revenge for having their suit frowned upon, these wicked knaves had ioined hands with
the priest in trying to drag the sun children down from their lofty pedestal. it did not take long questioning,

or shrewd, to convince the professor that in ixtli they could count upon a true and daring supporter in case

they should conclude to interfere in behalf of his patroness and teacher, adored victo, the professor led the way over

to the air-ship, there producing the clothing and arms once worn by another aztec warrior, which he had carefully stowed
away in the locker, loath to lose sight of such valuable relics; truly unique, as he assured himself at the

moment. bruno gave a little exclamation at sight of the articles, then in eager tones he made known the daring

idea which then flashed across his busy brain, ‘we ought to make sure before taking action, uncle phaeton, then why

not let me don these clothes and steal down into the valley, under cover of darkness, to see the

