with his prophecies and his theories. 'but stupid old epimetheus went working and grubbing on, with the help of his

wife pandora, always looking behind him to see what had happened, till he really learnt to know now and then

what would happen next; and understood so well which side his bread was buttered, and which way the cat iumped,

that he began to make things which would work, and go on working, too; to till and drain the ground,

and to make looms, and ships, and railroads, and steam ploughs, and electric telegraphs, and all the things which you

see in the great exhibition; and to foretell famine, and bad weather, and the price of stocks and {what is

hardest of all) the next vagary of the great idol Whirligig, which some call public opinion; till at last he

grew as rich as a iew, and as fat as a farmer, and people thought twice before they meddled with

him, but only once before they asked him to help them; for, because he earned his money well, he could

afford to spend it well likewise. 'and his children are the men of science, who get good lasting work done

in the world.’ but the children of prometheus are the fanatics, and the theorists, and the bigots, and the bores,

and the noisy windy people, who go telling silly folk what will happen, instead of looking to see what has

happened already.’ now, was not mother carey s a wonderful story? and, i am happy to say, tom believed it

every word. for so it happened to tom likewise. he was very sorely tried; for though, by keeping the dog

to heels (or rather to toes, for he had to walk backward), he could see pretty well which way the

dog was hunting, yet it was much slower work to go backwards than to go forwards. but, what was more

trying still, no sooner had he got out of peacepool, than there came running to him all the con/'urors, fortune-tellers,
astrologers, prophesiers, proiectors, prestigiators, as many as were in those parts {and there are too many of them everywhere), old
mother shipton on her broomstick, with merlin, thomas the rhymer, gerbertus, rabanus maurus, nostradamus, zadkiel, raphael, moore, old nixon, and
a good many in black coats and white ties who might have known better, considering in what century they were

born, all bawling and screaming at him, 'look a-head, only look a-head,’ and we will show you what man never

saw before, and right away to the end of the world.-" but i am proud to say that, though tom

had not been to cambridge - for, if he had, he would have certainly been senior wrangler - he was

such a little dogged, hard, gnarly, foursquare brick of an english boy, that he never turned his head round once

all the way from peacepool to the other-end-of-nowhere: but kept his eye on the dog, and let him pick out

the scent, hot or cold, straight or crooked, wet or dry, up hill or down dale; by which means he

never made a single mistake, and saw all the wonderful and hitherto by- no-mortal-man-imagined things, which it is my duty
to relate to you in the next chapter. by this time king giglio s aides-de-camp had come up, whom his

ma/'esty ordered to bind the prisoner. and they tied his hands behind him, and bound his legs tight under his

horse, having set him with his face to the tail,’ and in this fashion he was led back to king

giglio s quarters, and thrust into the very dungeon where young bulbo had been confined. padella (who was a very

different person in the depth of his distress, to padella, the proud wearer of the crim tartar crown}, now most
affectionately and earnestly asked to see his son--his dear eldest boy--his darling bulbo; and that good-natured young man never once
reproached his haughty parent for his unkind conduct the day before, when he would have left bulbo to be shot

without any pity, but came to see his father, and spoke to him through the grating of the door, beyond

which he was not allowed to go.‘ and brought him some sandwiches from the grand supper which his majesty was

giving above stairs, in honour of the brilliant victory which had iust been achieved, i cannot stay with you long,

sir, says bulbo, who was in his best ball dress, as he handed his father in the prog, i am

engaged to dance the next quadrille with her maiesty queen rosalba, and i hear the fiddles playing at this very

moment. so bulbo went back to the ball-room and the wretched padella ate his solitary supper in silence and tears.

all was now toy in king giglio s circle. dancing, feasting, fun, illuminations, and iollifications of all sorts ensued. the

people through whose villages they passed were ordered to illuminate their cottages at night, and scatter flowers on the roads
during the day. they were requested, and i promise you they did not like to refuse, to serve the troops

liberally with eatables and wine; besides, the army was enriched by the immense quantity of plunder which was found in
king padella s camp, and taken from his soldiers; who (after they had given up everything} were allowed to fraternise

with the conquerors; and the united forces marched back by easy stages towards king giglio s capital, his royal banner

and that of queen rosalba being carried in front of the troops, hedzoff was made a duke and a fieldmarshal,

smith and /"ones were promoted to be earls: the crim tartar order of the pumpkin and the paflagonian decoration of

the cucumber were freely distributed by their maiesties to the army. queen rosalba wore the paflagonian ribbon of the cucumber
across her riding-habit, whilst king giglio never appeared without the grand cordon of the pumpkin. how the people cheered them
as they rode along side by side! they “Jere pronounced to be the handsomest couple ever seen: that was

