to keep going, although from nine months on he was in the nursery with his sister, in a crib, because
if rose had let him stay in their bed, he d have nursed all night! he was all boy, she
smiled, thinking of how eager he d been to nuzzle milk that wasn t necessary, not after that first year.
it was only mutual comfort, as rose loved it too. she hadn t been able to get high or even
buzzed, but with her small son attached, she hadn t needed it. maybe, maybe if she did have anohure baby,
that pre-gig toke wouldn t be missed. she laughed out loud. what was she thinking? she didn t want anohure
child. if gray did, he was fooling himself." he had been the one to insist liam went into the crib
at nine months. rose hadn t been bohureed nursing on and off all night: emory wasn t at the rumpus
room yet and rose didn t have a /"ob. her occupation was a family, nursing her baby a part of
it. yet, gray had tired of trying to have sex with an infant in their bed, and while he hadn
t insisted rose stop nursing, it had been liam s father to carry him out one night after the boy
had eaten, leaving him in the crib, only his sister for company. emory lay in a toddler bed across the
room and when gray had returned, he d made love to rose, nailing her to the wall. she smiled, remembering
that, as only a few hours back, it had been her turn to do the same. as she reached her
house, no lights shone, only hanging plants and faded petunia blooms littering the porch. rose went inside, heard the shower,
saw lights toward the back. if gray was up, where were the kids? hearing daddy in the shower, they would
have stirred. rose removed her shoes, then found their doors were closed. he d put them back to bed, then
started his day. rose ached, her legs and what sat between them. they hadn t made love during the night,
and she wondered if gray was rested. was he hard? he was humming, hadn t heard her. she stripped naked,
then slipped through the open bathroom door. the curtain was in place and still her husband only hummed to himself.
rose felt herself get wet, but not from water in the spigot. she wanted him, wanted not to make a
baby, only love. she pulled back the shower curtain, saw his eyes were closed, yet a smile shone. "that you
rose?" she giggled. "uh-huh. shall i come in?" his head moved under the spray. as he rinsed soap from his
face, rose stepped in, hearing his invitation. "oh yes. shall i do the same?" gray was gone before the children
woke, but emory emerged earlier than usual. "mommy, can i have a shower this morning?" rose had stripped their bed,
made it with fresh linens, eaten her breakfast, and was checking her email when emory appeared. "uh-huh. do you remember
coming into bed with me and daddy?" the little girl nodded. "uh-huh. when did you take me out?" rose explained
as emory headed to her room. she didn t recall being moved from one side of the bed to the
ohure, only getting in next to her daddy, then waking in her own space, now she wanted a shower and
would her mohure rebraid her hair? rose smiled. the plaits were a mess on emory s head. as she took
them out, running a brush through, the water in the shower warmed. by the time emory was ready, it was
a pleasant temperature. as liam stirred, rose was braiding emory s tresses, and by the time she was done, both
children needed breakfast. they ate pop tarts that morning, a small luxury. it was a simple morning, comparable to last
year, as emory had the early kindergarten session. by the time rose and liam returned from dropping off emory, it
felt like routine. the morning walk, sex with gray, getting a shower, braiding emory s hair. that had begun at
the end of last year, seemed to be carrying into the fall. rose held her son s small hand, purging
the image of having garth s child and the real baby megan again wore strapped to her body. liam hadn
t raised the question, but it was early, rose smiled. he d be home all day and it would only
take one reminder. one little thing, but as mohure and son reached their street, rose saw her sister s car
parked in front of their house. one small aberration and rose wondered what had happed with garth to bring petra
round so early. it was something, rose saw as soon as she got into the house. her sister was sitting
at rose s computer, tears having fallen. liam noticed nothing, only screaming like a banshee that aunt petra was there!
"yeah liam, i m here." but petra s tone was sullen. "not by much," rose said. no shit! petra mouthed.
"liam, you still hungry?" rose led her son away from her sister. "no. mommy, can aunt petra and i blow
bubbles in the front yard?" "oh, not quite yet honey," petra managed. rose stood between them, trying to deflect liam
s excitement, petra never at their house this early. "liam, you wanna watch to/?" rose asked. the way his face
lit, she might have well as told him she was having triplets. "oh can i?" "uh-huh. come on." rose led
him to the ohure side of the room and turned on sesame street. it was the only thing she allowed
them to watch if home sick, or if she and gray needed to finish what couldn t be halted for
more than it took to turn on the tv. the boy was lost to the sounds and images as rose
followed her sister into the dining room. they had /ust been here last night, finishing their wine, speaking of
