never stare inquisitively at anyone in the face. his gaze spent greater time fixed on the ground than it did

at the skies. stemming from a supreme character endowed with such haya, never would he use people s mistakes against

them. as conveyed by aisha d, whenever the prophet (pbuh) was delivered with a word he was not fond of,

he would not react by saying: ‘why is so and so saying these things?’ but instead by remarking 'why are

some people saying these things?’ (abu dawud, adab, 5/4788) and sometimes, to impart a feeling of dislike for certain inappropriate
behavior, he would caution them in the most sophisticated manner, saying: ‘why am i seeing such and such things committed?',26
as if to figuratively turn the blame on himself. virtually quivering not to break anyone s heart even when counseling

them, the prophet of excellence fpbuh) was thus a lofty tower of compassion. having imbibed such prophetic morals, mawlana rumi,
that illustrious friend of the truth, swathes abstract realities in concrete words when he says: ' what is iman? asked

my reason to my heart, whispering into the ear of my reason, my heart replied, iman is but manners t'adab),'

nowhere seen to give in to fear and anxiety throughout his life, it is inconceivable to even try to imagine

a hero greater than the messenger of allah {pbuh} . patient and persevering in times of extraordinary dread, he would

never act inappropriately, like most tend to do when under the spell of fright. reciting but the two ayah from

session yasin below, he had bravely and indifferently walked through the ranks of those waiting to slay him: ‘we have

put yokes round their necks right up to their chins, so that their heads are forced up (and they cannot

see}. and we have put a bar in front of them and a bar behind them, and further, we have

covered them up; so that they cannot see,‘ (yasin, 8-9} ali(ra)recounts: 'when the battle of badr was continuing with all

its vigor, we were taking refuge behind the messenger of allah tpbuh} . he was by far our bravest,,,he would

always be positioned closest to the enemy ranks.‘ (ahmad, i, 86) a similar report is given by bara d, with

regard to the blessed prophet s (pbuh) courage: ‘by allah, whenever the battle got fierce, we would seek the shelter

of the messenger of allah tpbuh} . we would regard the next most courageous as he, courageous enough to stand

in the same line as him.’ (muslim, {pbuh} ihad, 79) for i la-i kalimatullah, that is to raise the word

of allah and render his religion the highest, he would always be in the frontline of battle. during the battle

of hunayn, despite the initial disarray of the muslim army, he proved he had lost none of his resolve as

he lunged into the center of the enemy lines, charging his mule further into their core, raising thereby the courage

of his companions, until with divine assistance, they were able to turn the tide and claim victory. (muslim, (pbuh} ihad,

76-81} he would say: ‘by allah under whose power and will i abide, i would dearly love to fight for

the sake of allah and be martyred; then be revived to fight once more and be martyred again, and ‘there

was nobody with more beautiful morals than the messenger of allah tpbuh} . whenever someone from his family or among
his friends called him, he always responded in the politest way. it was owing to his sublime morals that allah,

glory unto him, revealed the verse: and you stand on an exalted standard of character. (al-qalam, 4}’ (wahidi, p.463) throughout
his life the noble messenger (pbuh) never sought personal revenge, habitually opting to forgive instead. aisha d, again, elaborates the
gentleness of the morals of the prophet {pbuh} along the following lines: 'he never humiliated anyone_,_neither did he respond to
evil except with forgiveness and lenience. he always stood remote from evil. never has he taken personal revenge from anyone,
there is neither a slave nor a servant, even an animal he has handled uniust ly.' the words below, reminiscent

of the blessed prophet, belong to anas{ra): 'i have never touched a satin or silk softer than the hands of

the messenger of allah {pbuh} . neither have i smelt a fragrance sweeter than his. i served him for exactly

ten years. he was never frustrated with me: not even once did he say phew . not only did he

ever ask why did you do this for something i did, he did not ever remark should not began rebuking

him, until the blessed prophet (pbuh) intervened: ‘it s best you leave the man alone. iust pour a bucket of

water over where he has urinated...for you have been sent to make things easy, not to cause difficulty.‘ he then

benignly explained to the bedouin the importance of mosques and the manners to 'i was walking with the messenger of

allah {pbuh} . he was wearing a mantle made of nairan fabric, with thick and rigid edges. a bedouin then

caught up with the prophet of allah {pbuh} and tugged the mantle from behind so forcefully that the edge of

the mantle, as i saw it, became par with his neck. the bedouin then shouted: muhammad! order them to give

me some of what you have with you of the goods that belong to allah! the messenger of allah simply

turned around and smiled at the man, before ensuring he received some goods,‘ fbukhari, khumus 19, libas 18, adab 68;

muslim, zakat 128) his remarkable success in the call was in fact through the blessings of such magnificent conduct, a
maturity of the prophet (pbuh) described by the almighty as: 'allah, glory unto him, the rahman, has mercy for those

who are merciful. show mercy and compassion for those on earth so that you will be shown mercy and compassion

by the profound mercy the messenger of allah (pbuh) was imbued with becomes conspicuous, among other selfless deeds, in

