in rhythm with his thoughts. algors; a race akin to the lizards, forming communities, yet living solitary lifestyles in the
vast reaches of the desert. he knew so little about them. mappel said they spoke in the same language. that
in itself was difficult to imagine, large upright lizards holding a conversation. the image was laughable. yet, was that not
the point of his mission? as absurd as it seemed, his main goal was to meet and talk with the
algors, to convince them of the danger to the land and all of its inhabitants. here he was, already in
the desert, already following the thin veneer of signs that led him to this canyon. in the end, he returned
to the very things which brought him to this place. he turned to his inner most feelings. he hoped his
own deepest instincts would guide him to a decision, /"ust as they guided him through the desert. if he expected
to meet with the algors to explain the breach in sanctum and the threat of the sphere, he would have
to gain their trust. with that thought, he gained the answer to his question. they would wait here in the
open, wait for the algors to acknowledge them. how could he expect them to trust him, if he did not
trust them first? he made his decision known to holli by yelling out to the canyon wall and the many
openings within it. "algors! my name is ryson acumen. i m a delver. i am with holli brances, an elf.
we are here to speak with you." his words echoed only slightly overhead against the cliff face. after that, the
hot desert air swept them away. no other sound graced the area until ryson continued. "all the races must speak
together! the sphere of ingar is free from sanctum! we can tell you what we know, but we must meet
with you." he lowered his head, and his voice, as he turned his attention to holli. "let s make camp
here. we have to show them that we trust them. i really don t think they ll attack us anyway.
they ll either come down, or they ll ignore us. we ll just have to wait and see." "we will
not have to wait at all," holli stated abruptly. her face was expressionless, the demeanor of an elf guard facing
the unknown. her eyes narrowed as they scanned the entirety of the canyon wall. while she fought off her own
instincts to pull her sword, she nodded for ryson to look back. ryson caught his breath as he turned. in
all of his experiences over the past few days, nothing could prepare him for this bizarre spectacle. meeting an elf
was one thing, this sight yanked at his grip on sanity. even seeing the ghost of shayed could not compare
to what he now witnessed. like a legion of ants flowing from their anthill, countless algors erupted from the openings
which abounded across the sandstone. within mere moments, nearly every cave entrance spat out algors. an endless flow of yellowish
green flowed down the canyon wall toward them. they climbed downward with casual ease, each algor moving in concert with
the next, so as every apparent space of the cliff face was covered. at first it was difficult for the
delver to center his attention upon a single algor. their coordinated movements kept ryson scanning the growing flock as a
single entity. like a shifting, diving, turning school of fish, the moving multitude attracted attention from every angle and direction,
not one algor moved in opposition, not one algor stalled or paused. step by step, foothold by foothold, lines of
algors moved as if directed by a single consciousness, it was like watching a parade of well trained soldiers, soldiers
that spent years together so that every movement was in precise order. the delver and the elf marveled at the
whole spectacle. never had either witnessed such a display. even the elf guard could not boast of such precise coordination
of movement. it seemed impossible, as if the desert had finally taken control of their minds. it was not until
the algors began their final approach towards them, that they were able to break free from the hold of the
group movement. as the first wave of algors reached the desert floor and stepped toward him, ryson gasped out the
breath he had held. he inspected their physical characteristics with as much wonder as he watched their movements. an upright
toad, as tall as he was, was the only way he could describe them. large black eyes bulged near the
top of every head. two holes formed nostrils at the end of the rounded snouts that iutted forward. the mouth
opening crested wide, far back to the round greenish brown cheeks. not much of a forehead existed, merely a space
above and between the two eyes. the top of their heads curved slightly before dropping down to a wide neck.
small purple bumps took the place of hair. as for their bodies, the algors wore no cloak to hide their
scaly chest which was more yellow than green. long thin arms hung nimbly from somewhat droopy shoulders. long narrow legs,
which appeared quite flexible, held the light weight of the algor easily. claws tipped the thin fingers and toes and
webbing filled the spaces between each. just as the legends described, there was no sign of a tail, more and
more of the algors filed down the sandstone mountain and encircled the two messengers. they left a small space around
ryson and holli as they formed an unbroken circle all the way around, but they left little room for themselves.
they clumped themselves together in a growing, continuous ring, hardly leaving enough room to breathe. arms appeared interlocked as they
stood hip to hip and shoulder to shoulder. the chests of those that stood behind the inner ring pressed flat
against the backs of those in front of them, and so it was for each ring which spread back
