and quiet this morning, but what was once a bustling community of scientists was now a ghost town. approaching the
main entrance, they passed the scene of a great holocaust on the street outside the campus. a line of tv
communication vans parked in front of the von karman auditorium was now a row of blackened metal wrecks. although the
auditorium was intact, the pavement in front of it was blackened, and charred shapes lay scattered on the street. diedre
gasped, realizing the shapes were human bodies. several dozen people had been burned black by the death ray. they d
already begun to bloat and ooze dark liquid onto the pavement. diedre shuddered to think who those unrecognizable forms might
have been yesterday. beyond the wreckage, the main entry gate stood, empty. passing the gate on the way to their
lab building, they crossed a stretch of campus lawn landscaped intermittently with trees and bushes, diedre looked around her in
astonishment. "after all the explosions i heard, i thought the place would be in ruins." "not much damage at all,"
said frank, "just the power and the radio transmitters on the hill and the tv vans. that s all they
seemed to be after." diedre sighed. "i guess the sounds of explosions yesterday made things seem worse than they were."
"yeah," said frank. "those vans blew up with quite a racket." diedre noticed a man in an untucked white shirt
and wrinkled slacks in a planting bed shoveling dirt on what had been a bed of star iasmine. both the
man and the iob he was doing seemed out of place. "who s that?" she asked. "don t you recognize
him?" asked frank. "it s lloyd." approaching lloyd, diedre saw that his pile of dirt was grave-sized. lloyd s back
was to them and his flip-top hair blew in the breeze. "lloyd," she helloed. "it s frank and diedre," lloyd
turned as they walked up to him, but said nothing. a day s growth of stubble covered his chin and
cheeks and his pants and shirt were splotched with dirt and ash. he gazed at them dully with red-rimmed eyes.
he sat down on a stone bench beside the dirt pile, the corners of his mouth turned down bitterly. he
gestured at their surroundings. "she liked it here under the eucalyptus trees. you can almost see the whole campus." "she?
who?" asked diedre. lloyd said nothing, staring at the dirt. frank explained softly, "linda, his wife. tv news reporter, remember?
she died in the vans with the rest of them. lloyd left her there and came back to the lab
to get a dvd of images of phaeon for his presentation. he d finally decided to tell people everything we
knew. but while he was in the lab all hell broke loose." lloyd hunched over with his face in his
hands, reliving it all. "hey, lloyd," frank said cautiously. "diedre and i want to try reactivating clem." lloyd sat like
a statue with his eyes fixed on the grave. diedre tried to sound chipper. "whaddya think, lloyd? we ll find
a way to get clem up and running, just the three of us. just like the night we-" she almost
said, "-sent her down to look at phaeon," but stopped, remembering lloyd s uncontrite expression as he d sided with
maior macilvain. it was a hated memory but now his grief and his dirt-smeared hands made her feel like forgiving
lloyd. he d paid a terrible price for his complicity, staring at the dirt, he doubled a grimy fist and
hissed through clenched teeth, "i want to smash them, make them hurt like this." diedre put a hand on his
shoulder. "if we get a look at what they re doing up there, then maybe somebody can." they coaxed lloyd
to leave the grave with the shovel stuck in at one end as a marker and come with them across
the green campus to their own building. diedre was heartened to see that it was untouched by the beam. they
went to a basement entry door that led down to the clementine operations center, but frank paused to look at
the sky above the mountains. "guess what ll be rising any minute now." diedre followed his gaze through the smoky
haze over the craggy eastern horizon and saw one horn of the crescent moon poking up into the sky, goosebumps
rose on her arms. "we d better take cover," she said, but frank was in no hurry. he scratched in
his long frizzy brown hair. "i have a hunch they won t shoot at us. they re just after communications,
whoever they are." "just the same, i ll feel safer inside." a small gasoline powered generator purred beside the entrance
and diedre followed the orange power cable that snaked through the door, down the stairs and along the central corridor.
frank, adept at ad-hoc wiring, had tied it into the sub-basement s power grid, so when diedre reached the operations
center its fluorescent lights flickered a cool white greeting. as frank and lloyd followed her in, diedre realized that frank
/ohnston and lloyd andersen were probably the best co-conspirators she could hope for. frank s ability to work anything electrical
made it a foregone conclusion that they could fury-rig communications from earth to clementine. and lloyd knew as much about
the overall workings of ipl as anybody. she went to her old seat at the ace s computer terminal, sat
down and keyed in a command to retrieve the most recent clementine entries. the screen began reeling off a stream
of data. she smiled. "looks like we ve got a complete log of clem s activity up until we put
her on standby, with updates from her every six months since." frank and lloyd hemmed her in the way they
did on that night three years ago. somehow it felt more comfortable this time around. "great," said frank. "how s
her orbit?" "according to the last update she s still 55 kilometers up, orbiting directly over the poles. she
