something for the count to eat! Ah, here it is:

have a glass! The fete at the colonel s lasted

a long while. There was a great deal of drinking.

They tossed Serpuhovskoy in the air and caught him again
several times. Then they did the same to the colonel.

Then, to the accompaniment of the band, the colonel himself
danced with Petritsky. Then the colonel, who began to show

signs of feebleness, sat down on a bench in the

courtyard and began demonstrating to Yashvin the superiority of Russia
over Poland, especially in cavalry attack, and there was a

lull in the revelry for a 676 of 1759 Anna

Karenina moment. Serpuhovskoy Went into the house to the bathroom
to wash his hands and found Vronsky there,’ Vronsky was
drenching his head with water. He had taken off his

coat and put his sunburnt, hairy neck under the tap,

and was rubbing it and his head with his hands.

when he had finished, Vronsky sat down by Serpuhovskoy. They
both sat down in the bathroom on a lounge, and

a conversation began which was very interesting to both of
them. 7 ve always been hearing about you through my

wife, said Serpuhovskoy. 7 m glad you ve been seeing

her pretty often. She s friendly with Varya, and they

re the only women in Petersburg 7 care about seeing,

answered Vronsky, smiling. He smiled because he foresaw the topic
the conversation would turn on, and he was glad of

it. The only ones? Serpuhovskoy queried, smiling. Yes; and 7
heard news of you, but not only through your wife,

said Vronsky, checking his hint by a stern expression of

face. 7 was greatly delighted to hear of your success,

but not a bit surprised. 7 expected even more. Serpuhovskoy
smiled. Such an opinion of him was obviously agreeable to

him, and he did not think it necessary to conceal

it, 677 of 1759 Anna Karenina well, 7 on the

contrary expected less-7 ll own frankly. 8ut 7 m glad,

very glad. 7 m ambitious,’ that s my weakness, and

7 confess to it. Perhaps you Wouldn t confess to

it if you hadn t been successful, said Vronsky. 7

don t suppose so, said Serpuhovskoy, smiling again. 7 won

t say life Wouldn t be worth living without it,

but it would be dull. Of course 7 may be

mistaken, but 7 fancy 7 have a certain capacity for

the line 7 ve chosen, and that power of any

sort in my hands, if it is to be, will

be better than in the hands of a good many

people 7 know, said Serpuhovskoy, with beaming consciousness of success;
and so the nearer 7 get to it, the better

pleased 7 am. Perhaps that is true for you, but

not for everyone. 7 used to think so too, but

here 7 live and think life worth living not only

for that. There it s out! here it comes! said

Serpuhovskoy, laughing. Ever since 7 heard about you, about your
refusal, 7 began.... Of course, 7 approved of what you

did. But there are ways of doing everything. And 7

think your action was good in itself, but you didn

t do it quite in the way you ought to

have done, 678 of 7759 Anna kzarenina what s

