forward. "we know it. y u and that hellish partner of yours shot him while he was locking the gate,
but y u made a mistake when y u come to fort lincoln, he lived there before he went to
be a guard at the arizona penitentiary. i m his brother. these gentlemen are his neighbors. y u re not
going back to prison. y u re going to stay right here under this cottonwood." if the extraordinary menace of
the man appalled neill he gave no sign of it. his gray eye passed from one to another of them
quietly without giving any sign of the impotent tempest raging within him. "you re going to lynch me then?" "y
u ve called the turn." "without giving me a chance to prove my innocence?" "without giving y u a chance
to escape or sneak back to the penitentiary." the thing was horribly unthinkable. the warm mellow afternoon sunshine wrapped them
about. the horses grazed with quiet unconcern. one of these hard-faced frontiersmen was chewing tobacco with machine-like regularity, another was
rolling a cigarette. there was nothing of dramatic effect. not a man had raised his voice. but neill knew there
was no appeal. he had come to the end of the passage through a horrible mistake. he raged in bitter
resentment against his fate, against these men who stood so quietly about him ready to execute it, most of all
against the girl who had let him sacrifice himself by concealing the vital fact that her brother had murdered a
guard to effect his escape. fool that he had been, he had stumbled into a trap, and she had let
him do it without a word of warning. wild, chaotic thoughts crowded his brain furiously. but the voice with which
he addressed them was singularly even and colorless. "i am a stranger to this country. i was born in tennessee,
brought up in the panhandle. i m an irrigation engineer by profession. this is my vacation. i m headed now
for the mal pais mines, friends of mine are interested in a property there with me and i have been
sent to look the ground over and make a report. i never heard of kinney till to-day. you ve got
the wrong man, gentlemen." "we ll risk it," laughed one brutally. "bring that riata, tom." neill did not struggle or
cry out frantically. he stood motionless while they adjusted the rope round his bronzed throat. they had judged him for
a villain; they should at least know him a man. so he stood there straight and lithe, wide-shouldered and lean-flanked,
a man in a thousand. not a twitch of the well-packed muscles, not a quiver of the eyelash nor a
swelling of the throat betrayed any fear. his cool eyes were quiet and steady. "if you want to leave any
message for anybody i ll see it s delivered," promised duffield. "i ll not trouble you with any." "just as
you like." "he didn t give poor dave any time for messages," cried tom long bitterly. "that s right," assented
another with a curse. it was plain to the victim they were spurring their nerves to hardihood. "who s that?"
cried one of the men, pointing to a rider galloping toward them. the newcomer approached rapidly, covered by their weapons,
and flung himself from his pony as he dragged it to a halt beside the group. "steve fraser," cried duffield
in surprise, and added, "he s an officer in the rangers," "right, gentlemen, come to claim my prisoner," said the
ranger promptly. "y u can t have him, steve. we took him and he s got to hang." the lieutenant
of rangers shook his dark curly head. "won t do, duffield. won 1." do at all," he said decisively. "you
d ought to know law s on top in texas these days." tom long shouldered his way to the front.
"law! where was the law when this ruffian kinney shot down my poor brother dave? i guess a rope and
a cottonwood s good enough law for him. anyhow, that s what he gits." fraser, hard-packed, lithe, and graceful, laid
a friendly hand on the other s shoulder and smiled sunnily at him. "i know how you feel, tom. we
all thought a heap of dave and you re his brother. but dave died for the law. both you boys
have always stood for order. he d be troubled if he knew you were turned enemy to it on his
account." "i m for justice, steve. this skunk deserves death and i m going to see he gits it." "no
tom." "i say yes. .V u ain t sitting in this game, steve." "i reckon i ll have to take
a hand then." the ranger s voice was soft and drawling, but his eyes were indomitably steady. throughout the southwest
his reputation for fearlessness was established even among a population singularly courageous. the audacity of his daredevil recklessness was become
a proverb. "we got a full table. better ride away and forget it," said another. "that ain t what i
m paid for, jack," returned fraser good-naturedly. "better turn him over to me peaceable, boys. he ll get what s
coming to him all right." "he ll get it now, steve, without any help of yours. we don t aim
to allow any butting in." "don t you?" there was a flash of steel as the ranger dived forward. next
instant he and the prisoner stood with their backs to the cottonwood, a revolver having somehow leaped from its scabbard
to his hand. his hunting-knife had sheared at a stroke the riata round the engineer s neck. "take it easy,
boys," urged fraser, still in his gentle drawl, to the astonished vigilantes whom his sudden sally had robbed of their
victim. "think about it twice. we ll all be a long time dead. no use in hurrying the funerals." nevertheless
he recognized battle as inevitable. friends of his though they were, he knew these sturdy plainsmen would never submit
I
