bar monday about noon. then after lunch i ll get you checked in. leo needs his combat photos taken before
he can fly a combat mission and have his flight status records checked. since you have flown combat missions on
yt before rick you re all set. you planning on showing him around on sunday?" "yes, mother, kim and i
will meet him whenever he decides to get moving tomorrow morning. so don t get him drunk or keep him
out all night. and don t let cheryl flirt with him." "my wife doesn t flirt with young airman." bob
stated defensively. "yeah i know. only young sergeants." "your the only one she hits on. besides, she admits that she
loves you." "i know. i think it s great because i love her too and if she wasn t married
to you, i would have an older girlfriend even if she does have two kids." "tell me bob, how did
you get cheryl and the kids here so fast?" "huh." rick looked at his friend in wonder. "you just said
that cheryl is here. right?" "she is. the kids aren t. we gave them away." "what the hell? stop messing
with me." rick demanded as he laughed out loud. "i m not messing with you. it would be at least
two more months before cheryl and the kids could get here on my pcs orders, they would have to wait
for housing. so cheryl and i decided to sell the kids. take the money from the sale, and buy her
a plane ticket to okinawa by way of iapan. get an okinawan rental just like the guys who live with
their girlfriends do. and here she is. took less than a week and she was here and we were shacked
up in this nice little house with red tile roof, an indoor toilet, western style stove, refrigerator, and shower. all
for $55 a month." "so who was so stupid as to buy your monsters? i can t imagine anyone in
their right minds would pay good money for those two girls." "hey sergeant, those kids are your godchildren," "yeah, but
i m an agnostic, so who cares? who was the salter?" "my folks. the problem though is that i m
not sure we can get them back when we get their orders to come to kadena. their grandparents were too
willing to take the beasts. i m scared shitless they ll blackmail us down the road sometime." "i think that
they should. blackmail you that is. you should have suspected something when they were so eager to take them off
your hands and had them submit to a mental evaluation before you gave the beasts to them." "you hate my
kids." "no, i love them almost as much as you do which is reason that i should also have a
mental evaluation." rosko had sat quietly listening until kruse pulled the truck up to the curb in front of the
transit barracks and he was safely on the sidewalk. "does this go on all the time? i mean if it
does, maybe i d be better off on another tanker." he said with a smile. "your kids aren t here,
right bob? in other words it s safe to go to your house?" "honest, leo, it is. just don t
get too close to cheryl." rick quipped before kruse could answer leo, "iesus, rick, stop telling him things like that,
he ll think we re completely perverted okies and really sold our kids and cheryl is a nut case," "well,
i rest my case." rick was out of the truck and taking bags out of the bed of the pickup.
"i ll give you guys a hand and show you to your room. the flightline is quiet right now and
will be for another hour or so." kruse said as he started towards the front door of the barracks carrying
two of their bags. rick showered and shaved. put on the pants and one of the shirts that he had
bought on his last trip to okinawa. in front of the barracks he iumped on the base shuttle bus with
full intentions of walking out gate #2 then down gate 2 street to bc street and the palms club bar.
at the base gate he stayed on the sidewalk, flashed his id at the air police on duty in the
guard shack set in the middle of the gate and kept walking, "hey, gi, you want girlfriend for weekend?" rick
spun back towards the {hard shack. he knew the voice and happily played her game. "sure how much you charge
for the whole weekend?" standing by the {hard shack door, was a lovely asian woman dressed in a bright green,and
brown floral kimono. her hair was up as it should be to match the kimono. but her lovely face that
rick admired was only touched with a bit of subtle red lipstick and a blush of soft pink on her
high cheek bones. an air policeman and okinawan security guard stood next to her laughing. "for you? it s already
almost dinner time Saturday. how about i buy you dinner and pay for bus to nishihara?" kim declared in her
pseudo-bargirl accent. no longer able to stand their separation kim ran across the intervening street in strides restricted by her
tight fitting kimono. she tried to leap into rick s arms and made it when he lifted her by her
hips. between kisses barely decipherable words flowed. "i love you. i missed you, what took so long for you to
get here. hold me. i love you." they stood in the middle of the sidewalk breathing hard, but not moving,
just holding onto each other tightly. "i think we should go." rick said quietly. "my god! you are beautiful. i
have never seen you in a kimono before." "thank you, my love, you are beautiful also, i know you haven
t. i wanted today to be special for us." "how long have you been waiting?" he asked giving her
