and the guys were banging the cans into the back. ‘shhh.‘ she reached to quiet her. ‘we re almost there,

baby.‘ then she tugged at her leash and settled her back into the seat. since the rain was all but

over, she decided to park the car where she dropped knickers off and then walk over to her office, which

was only a couple of blocks east. she found a spot right next to the awning of pooch pros, and

the minute knickers was liberated from the car, she bounded to the door dragging her leash through the puddles. misha
was already there to meet her. ‘come on, my kraceve baby, my beauty.‘ he reached down and gave her a

big hug, misha was a gaunt, balding, blond-haired russian who had once been the hero of the soviet olympic swim
team. now he looked like he could stand a piroshki or two to plump him up. ‘you be big fluff

of cloud after we finishing.‘ ally followed them in, and there was betty. ally figured ‘betty‘ assumed her made-up but
totally american name was easier than whatever she d used in russia, but to ally it iust felt weird betty

had dark hair, a broad smile that wouldn t die, and approximately thirty pounds that would have looked better on
misha. they reminded her of iack sprat, et al. ‘honey, there is problem at your office. woman name iennifer call.
say she try reach you at home but you leave already. and you don t answer your cell phone.‘ ‘shit,

i turned it off. knickers goes nuts if it rings in the car.‘ iennifer was only a couple of years

older than ally, but she d been with the firm back when ally s father, arthur, ran it and she

was the mother figure of citispace. she was also ally s best friend and had been even before ally came

back to run the firm. ally felt like she had known her forever. these days /‘en spent a lot of

effort trying to create a social life for ally that would include eligible men. she kept nagging her to ioin

some clubs, anything, iust get out there. ally knew she was right, but she was working too hard to take

time out. she had the idea, which she wasn t naive enough to actually believe at a rational level, that

sooner or later someone who could replace steve would come along. yes, she was lonely :1 lot, but until this

last deterioration of her heart she d spent a lot of evenings and weekends outside, biking and hiking around town,
and she knew plenty of people who were interesting and kind. she sometimes thought her problem was that she liked
people, all kinds of people, as long as they were kept slightly away, at a psychic distance. maybe it was

the getting close part that never seemed to work out. it had actually been that way ever since steve disappeared.

she had the premonition that if she got too close to somebody, she was destined to lose them. now she

stood for a second, puzzling. she d mentioned taking knickers to pooch pros, so that s how ien knew where

she d be, but what could have gone wrong at 7:45 in the morning? iennifer wasn t usually in this

early, but she was finishing a rush job for a marble bathroom for a couple on the upper east side.

on days when iennifer did get to the office first, she d have the coffee going and an extra bagel

for knickers, on the chance ally might bring her, which she often did. but to phone betty iust to tell

her to hurry? that was odd. ‘should i call now?‘ it seemed pointless. she was no more than ten minutes

away. what else could go wrong in ten minutes? ‘she sound very hurry,‘ betty declared. ally took her cell phone

out of her bag and switched it on. the office rang only once and then iennifer was there. ‘ally, you

re not going to believe who called here ten minutes ago, asking for you. winston bartlett. my god, it s

like donald trump called. well, actually it was some male secretary or something. he said he was calling to confirm
your ten o clock appointment. at an address on gramercy park east. what s that about? iesus, ally, where are

you? i don t know what you re up to, but this could be big. he owns entire buildings, for

chrissake,‘ ‘did you say i was coming?‘ ‘i didn t know what to say. he left a number to call

if you can t make it. otherwise, he ll assume you ll be there. it s only two hours from

now.‘ ‘all right, ien, let s put together a folio of our biggest iobs. lead with that gut rehab we

did on the building down by the south street seaport. and put in those two floor-through lofts we did on

that conversion in tribeca. the ones with the slate bathrooms and the stainless-steel countertops in the kitchen.‘ ‘i ve already
started. do you know specifically what he has in mind?‘ she paused. ‘how did he find out about us, anyway?‘

‘my creepy kid brother works for him.‘ she sighed. ‘it s a long story. be there in a couple of

minutes.‘ she clicked off the phone. ‘betty, thanks a lot. i ve gotta run.‘ she turned and gave knickers a

last rumple of the ears. ‘be good, baby, i ll pick you up by six at the latest.‘ ‘what wrong?‘

misha was concerned, twisting a white towel he was holding. ‘big problem?‘ ‘nothing s wrong. actually, something probably is wrong.
i iust don t know what it is yet.‘ she headed out the door. the design firm her father had

started and she d kept going, now with some architecture thrown in, was on the ground floor of an old

industrial loft building whose upper floors had been converted into rental apartments in the early 1980s. the owner was

