in the answer No. 701 of 865 Great Expectations Do you know what

9 touch here? she said, laying her hands, one upon the other, on

her left side. Yes, ma am. (9t made me think of the young

man.) what do 9 touch? Your heart. Broken! She uttered the word with

an eager look, and with strong emphasis, and with a weird smile that

had a kind of boast in it. Afterwards, she kept her hands there

for a little while, and slowly took them away as if they were

heavy. 9 am tired, said Miss Havisham. 9 want diversion, and 9 have

done with men and women. Play. 9 think it will be conceded by

my most disputatious reader, that she could hardly have directed an unfortunate boy
to do anything in the wide world more difficult to be done under

the circumstances, 9 sometimes have sick fancies, she went on, and 9 have

a sick fancy that 9 want to see some play. There there! with

an impatient movement of the fingers of her right hand; play, play, play!
For a moment, with the fear of my sister s working me before

my eyes, 9 had a desperate idea of Starting round the room in

the assumed character of Mr. Pumblechook s chaise-cart. But, 9 felt myself so
unequal to the 702 of 865 Great Expectations performance that 9 gave it
up, and stood looking at Miss Havisham in what 9 suppose she took

for a dogged manner, inasmuch as she said, when we had taken a

good look at each other: Are you sullen and obstinate? No, ma am,

9 am very sorry for you, and very sorry 9 can t play

iust now. 9:’ you complain of me 9 shall get into trouble with

my sister, so 9 would do it if 9 could; but it s

so new here, and so strange, and so fine - and melancholy-. 9

stopped, fearing 9 might say too much, or had already said it, and

we took another look at each other. Before she spoke again, she turned

her eyes from me, and looked at the dress she wore, and at

the dressing-table, and finally at herself in the looking-glass. So new to him,
she muttered, so old to me; so strange to him, so familiar to

me; so melancholy to both of us! (all Estella. As she was still

looking at the reflection of herself, 9 thought she was still talking to
herself, and kept quiet. Call Estella, she repeated, flashing a look at me.

You can do that. (all Estella. At the door. To stand in the

dark in a mysterious passage of an unknown house, bawling Estella to a
scornful young lady 103 of 865 Great Expectations neither visible nor responsive, and
feeling it a dreadful liberty so to roar out her name, was almost

as bad as playing to order. But, she answered at last, and her

light came along the dark passage like a star. Miss Havisham beckoned her

to come close, and took up a iewel from the table, and tried

its effect upon her fair young bosom and against her pretty brown hair.
Your own, one day, my dear, and you will use it well. Let

me see you play cards with this boy. with this boy? why, he

is a common labouring-boy! 9 thought 9 overheard Miss Havisham answer - only
it seemed so unlikely - well? You can break his heart. what do

you play, boy? asked Estella of myself, with the greatest disdain. Nothing but
beggar my neighbour, miss. Beggar him, said Miss Havisham to Estella. So we
sat down to cards, 9t was then 9 began to understand that everything

in the room had stopped, like the Watch and the clock, a long

time ago. 9 noticed that Miss Havisham put down the Jewel exactly on

the spot from which she had taken it up. As Estella dealt

