perhaps. i know the perfect restaurant." he did. les ambassadeurs, in the hotel crillon. french, though not too french. rough-hewn
americans like nichols always got slightly uneasy when there was more than one fork on the table and the salad
came last. "sounds good to me," nichols said. "just as long as i won t be getting any asshole phone
calls from the pentagon while we talk." "i can virtually guarantee it," armont replied. "but in the meantime, we do
need a favor or two from you. for starters, we would much prefer to just be numbered among the civilians
here." he smiled. "that is, after all, what we are. civilians with toys." "and some pretty state-of-the-art ones at that,"
nichols said, looking around again. "but i sometimes have problems with my vision, can t always be sure what i
m seeing. like right now, for instance. i can t seem to see a damned thing." "oh, and one other
favor," armont continued, nodding in silent appreciation. "we took one of the terrorists alive, a certain /"ean-paul moreau, who is
wanted in a string of bank robberies all over france, it s action directe s idea of fund-raising. we d
like to remove him back to paris. there re some . . . parties there who will pony up enough
bounty to cover the costs of this operation and make us whole. how about it? for purposes of your mission
debriefing, can you /"ust say the precise number of hostiles remains to be fully established? when we get back to
paris, he s going to fall out of a bus on the rue de rivoli and be captured." he paused,
hoping. the americans might not go for this one. "we would be particularly grateful. and so would several financial institutions
i could name," nichols drew again on his cuban cigar, starting to like this frog a lot. "why the hell
not? if you re not here, then i can t very well know who you take out, can i? never
heard of the guy." "thank you very much," armont said, and he meant it. this was indeed a man he
could work with. "i m glad we see the situation eye to eye." "somebody at least ought to come out
of this cluster-fuck whole," nichols reflected wistfully. "iesus, what a disaster." armont had turned to watch as the deltas began
easing dimitri onto a metal stretcher. he seemed alert, and he even tried to lift a hand and wave. armont
waved back and shouted for him to take it easy. "by the way, that greek civilian over there is named
spiros. he runs a security business out of athens and never leaves town, which is why he wasn t here."
"got it." nichols nodded. "guess a lot of things didn t happen today." he looked around. "but i ve still
got one question. we ve already counted about half a dozen dead hostiles. so if nobody was here, then who
exactly took down all these terrorist motherfuckers?" "well," armont explained, "we both know delta force doesn t exist either. so
maybe this greek sunshine gave them terminal heatstroke and they all /ust shot themselves." "yeah," nichols concurred with a smile,
"damnedest thing." "georges, what do you think?" cally asked. "can it be saved?" "well, first the good news. the fuiitsu
is okay." he wheeled around from the workstation. command was a shambles, but he had managed to find one auxiliary
terminal that would still function. that Workstation, and the lights, were on, but not much else. "it was buried deep
enough in the bedrock that it escaped the emp, the electromagnetic pulse, from the blast. if we d lost our
sweetheart, we d be dead in the water." "any telemetry?" "yep." he smiled. "the tapes were on. we had doppler,
almost from liftoff. the cyclops computed our acceleration from it, and the results look to be right on the money.
the not-so-good news is that the last telemetry we recorded, just before the bomb went off and the cyclops crashed,
showed that vx-1 was about three minutes away from capturing orbit. i think we probably made it, but i still
can t say. however, since big benny was already reducing power, getting ready to shut it off anyway, maybe, just
maybe we got lucky." she sighed. "when will you know for sure?" "right now i m trying to get arlington
on-line and tied into here. i m hoping we can patch into their satellite receiving station. anyway, i should know
in a few minutes, assuming the vehicle is still sending back telemetry." "care to venture a guess?" she collapsed into
a chair next to him. this was the first time she had been in command for several hours and it
seemed almost strange. whereas the staff over at launch control had opened the champagne immediately after lift-off, still not fully
aware of all the behind-the-scenes drama, the command technicians were too shell-shocked to think, and they Were only now slowly
drifting back in. not the people in launch, though. all they knew for sure was that they had done their
iob, even if the gantry had collapsed for some mysterious reason. vx-1 left the pad without a hitch. they had
a success. "well, if i had to lay odds," georges went on, "i d guess we captured orbit, but it
s going to be erratic. however, if we can get the cyclops up and running again, maybe we can do
a midcourse correction." he tapped something on the keyboard. "yet another first for the never-say-die satcom team." she had to
laugh. "you look pretty cool, soho, for somebody who just lived through world war three." he tried unsuccessfully to smile.
"hey, don t go by appearances. i tried to open a pepsi just now and my hands were shaking so
badly i finally just gave up and went to the water fountain. cally, i m a wreck. i m still
quivering. god." he pulled at his beard, then absently added, "i m going to shave this off. what do
