firmly lashed together formed a kind of circular barrier which protected the deck from the waves. that morning, /'ohn seeing
that the wind was in their favor, rigged up the royal-yard in the middle of the /aft as a mast,

it was stayed with shrouds, and carried a makeshift sail, a large broad-bladed oar was fixed behind to act as

a rudder in case the wind was sufficient to require it. the greatest pains had been expended on strengthening the

raft to resist the force of the waves, but the question remained whether, in the event of a change of

wind, they could steer, or indeed, whether they could hope ever to reach the land. at nine o clock they

began to load. first came the provisions, in quantity sufficient to last till they should reach auckland, for they could

not count on the productions of this barren region. olbinett s stores furnished some preserved meat which remained of the
purchase made for their voyage in the macquarie. this was but a scanty resource. they had to fall back on

the coarse viands of the ship,‘ sea biscuits of inferior quality, and two casks of salt fish. the steward was

quite crestfallen. these provisions were put in hermetically sealed cases, staunch and safe from sea water, and then lowered on
to the raft and strongly lashed to the foot of the mast. the arms and ammunition were piled in a

dry corner. fortunately the travelers were well armed with carbines and revolvers. a holding anchor was also put on bread
in case iohn should be unable to make the land in one tide, and would have to seek moorings. at

ten o clock the tide turned. the breeze blew gently from the northwest, and a slight swell rocked the frail

craft. ‘are we ready?‘ asked iohn. ‘all ready, captain,‘ answered wilson. ‘all abread!‘ cried iohn. lady helena and mary grant
descended by a rope ladder, and took their station at the foot of the mast on the cases of provisions,

their companions near them. wilson took the helm. iohn stood by the tackle, and mulrady cut the line which held

the raft to the ship s side. the sail was spread, and the frail structure commenced its progress toward the

land, aided by wind and tide. the coast was about nine miles off, a distance that a boat with good

oars would have accomplished in three hours. but with a raft allowance must be made. if the wind held, they

might reach the land in one tide. but if the breeze died away, the ebb would carry them away from

the shore, and they would be compelled to anchor and wait for the next tide, a serious consideration, and one

that filled iohn mangles with anxiety. still he hoped to succeed. the wind freshened. the tide had turned at ten

o clock, and by three they must either make the land or anchor to save themselves from being carried out

to sea. they made a good start. little by little the black line of the reefs and the yellow banks

of sand disappeared under the swelling tide. extreme watchfulness and perfect skill were necessary to avoid these submerged rocks, and
steer a bark that did not readily answer to the helm, and that constantly broke off. at noon they were

still five miles from shore. a tolerably clear sky allowed them to make out the principal features of the land.

in the northeast rose a mountain about 2,300 feet high, whose sharply defined outline was exactly like the grinning face
of a monkey turned toward the sky. it was pirongia, which the map gave as exactly on the 38th parallel.

at half-past twelve, paganel remarked that all the rocks had disappeared under the rising tide. ‘all but one,‘ answered lady
helena. ‘which, madam?‘ asked paganel. ‘there,‘ replied she, pointing to a black speck a mile off. ‘yes, indeed,‘ said paganel.
‘let us try to ascertain its position, so as not to get too near it, for the sea will soon

conceal it.‘ ‘it is exactly in a line with the northern slope of the mountain,‘ said john mangles. ‘wilson, mind

you give it a wide berth.‘ ‘yes, captain,‘ answered the sailor, throwing his whole weight on the great oar that

steered the raft. in half an hour they had made half a mile. but, strange to say, the black point

still rose above the waves. iohn looked attentively, and in order to make it out, borrowed paganel s telescope. ‘that

is no reef,‘ said he, after a moment; ‘it is something floating, which rises and falls with the swell.‘ ‘is

it part of the mast of the macquarie?‘ asked lady helena. ‘no,‘ said glenarvan, ‘none of her timbers could have

come so far,‘ ‘stay!‘ said iohn mangles; ‘i know it! it is the boat.‘ ‘the ship s boat?‘ exclaimed glenarvan,

‘yes, my lord. the ship s boat, keel up.‘ ‘the unfortunate creatures,‘ cried lady helena, ‘they have perished!‘ ‘yes, madam,‘
replied iohn mangles, ‘they must have perished, for in the midst of these breakers in a heavy swell on that

pitchy night, they ran to certain death.‘ for a few minutes the passengers were silent. they gazed at the frail

craft as they drew near it. it must evidently have capsized about four miles from the shore, and not one

of the crew could have escaped. ‘but this boat may be of use to us,‘ said glenarvan. ‘that is true,‘

answered iohn mangles. ‘keep her up, wilson.‘ the direction was slightly changed, but the breeze fell gradually, and it was
two hours before they reached the boat. mulrady, stationed forward, fended off the blow, and the yawl was drawn alongside.
‘empty?’ asked iohn mangles. ‘yes, captain,‘ answered the sailor, ‘the boat is empty. and all its seams are open. it

is of no use to us.‘ ‘no use at all?‘ said mcnabbs. ‘none at all,‘ said John mangles. ‘it is

good for nothing but to burn.‘ ‘i regret it,‘ said paganel, ‘for the yawl might have taken us to

