called ken. oh shit. then she realized that a thirtyish woman was running down west eleventh street toward them, carrying
a dark green backpack in her left hand. they "were gesturing for her to come to them and get into
the vehicle, though she didn t appear to see them yet. halfway down the block behind her, a man in
a tan flight iacket was running, calling out. "kristen, wait i just want to talk-" the running woman glanced over
her shoulder at him and, at that moment collided with bartlett s flunky. as she recoiled from the impact the
red-haired woman seized her left arm. "kirby, come," the woman said. "you re not well. we ll take you back."
"no!" she yelled, and twisted free of the woman s grasp. but now the iapanese guy had grabbed her other
arm. "it s going to be all right," he said as he Caught the top of her head and started
shoving her through the open door of the navigator. "you shouldn t go out alone." at that moment the man
in the tan flight iacket reached the scene. it was stone, but he d been moments too late. he stretched
his arm into the lincoln and tried to take the girl s hand. "kristen, don t go with them. i
just need to talk-" "you don t need to do anything, pal," the man called ken declared. "except get out
of the way." he chopped the side of stone s neck with an open hand, sending him sprawling backwards onto
the pavement, flight iacket askew. now something odd was going on. another girl was running down the sidewalk. "kristy, wait.
don t . . ." but the redheaded woman had already gotten into the back seat of the suv, beside
the girl, and the iapanese man was heading around the front. three seconds later, he was behind the wheel and
peeling out. they Were gone. ally sat watching, stunned. but now a chevy sedan was departing a parking space three
cars down from where she was and she quickly pulled in. by then stone aimes had picked himself up off
the sidewalk and was gazing wistfully in the direction of the vanishing lincoln. the girl who d been behind him
stopped and was talking to him. ally quickly locked the toyota and went over. "but why did she run?" stone
aimes was asking. he was disheveled but then being slugged and knocked to the sidewalk takes a toll on anybody
s poise. "she didn t know who you were," the girl replied she looked like she would have been more
at home in the east village than here: late twenties, tattoo on one bicep, eyebrows pierced blue ieans, hair needing
a better day. she had serious acne scars on her cheeks. "i think she thought you were them, whoever they
were." ally looked stone over and felt a surge of admiration. in spite of the fact he just got decked,
there was an athletic feeling about the way he carried his body, as though he was ready to pounce on
a news source. only he /"ust didn t pounce quite fast enough this time. she walked up and gave him
a hug. for a lot of reasons. "hey, we can t go on meeting like this." "my god, how humiliating."
he winced. "what in heaven s name /"ust happened? that was kristen, all right. but why was she running from
you?" "i saw this woman walking very fast up the street carrying a backpack and i just took a shot
and called out kristen, she glanced back at me, then took off like a rabbit. all i accomplished was to
drive her directly into the grasp of those goons." "you scared her," the girl with the pierced eyebrows shouted, gazing
angrily at stone. "who are you? why did you-?" "i m a newspaper reporter," he said. "who are you?" "i
sublet the garden apartment from her. i met her when i was doing her makeup at the e! channel. i
mentioned i was looking for a place and she said she liked me and wanted somebody she liked to be
her subtenant. the rent is really law. then they canceled her show and she had a mental meltdown and went
to a spa somewhere to regroup. or at least that s what everybody at e! says." "so that s definitely
kristen starr?" ally asked. "i hadn t seen her in over five months, not even to pay the rent, and
i couldn t believe it was her when she rang my bell and asked if she could borrow my copy
of her key. at first i almost didn t recognize her. she looked . . . different somehow. the odd
part was, i got the impression that she didn t recognize me either, at least for a minute or two.
when i asked her if she wanted the rent, she just looked at me funny. a few minutes later, she
brought the key back and she had a half-open backpack stuffed with clothes and papers. she seemed nervous and disoriented.
i was going to try and help her get a cab. but then you showed up." "hey, look, i had
no idea i was going to freak her out like that," stone said. "what s your name?" ally asked and
then she introduced herself. "my named is cindy dobbs, and you know something? kristen didn t seem like the same
person, in a lot of ways. she looked really different. i don t know how to explain it. but something
was really, really wrong with her. and she kept saying her name wasn t kristen, that it s something else-i
can t remember what now, all i know is, she was totally spooked." "talk about bad timing," stone said. "she
was so paranoid she kept babbling about how they knew she was here in her apartment and were coming to
get her and she had to get away real quick. i don t know who she was talking about.
