it would be best to stay away until madame baumgarten should be informed by her husband of the agreement which had been made. he therefore made his way
down to the grﬁ"/gner mann, which was one of the favourite trysting-places of the wilder students, and ran, boisterously waving his cane in the air, into the little
parlour, where sat spiegler and m5"/zller and half a dozen other boon companions. "ha, ha! my boys," he shouted. "i knew i should find you here. drink up,
every one of you, and call for what you like, for i m going to stand treat to-day." had the green man who is depicted upon the signpost
of that well-known inn suddenly marched into the room and called for a bottle of wine, the students could not have been more amazed than they were by
this unexpected entry of their revered professor. they "Jere so astonished that for a minute or two they glared at him in utter bewilderment without being able to
make any reply to his hearty invitation. "donner und blitzen!" shouted the professor angrily. "what the deuce is the matter with you, then? you sit there like a
set of stuck pigs staring at me. what is it then?" "it is the unexpected honour," stammered spiegel, who was in the chair. "honour -- rubbish! said the
professor testily, "do you think that just because i happen to have been exhibiting mesmerism to a parcel of old fossils, i am therefore too proud to associate
with dear old friends like you." come out of that chair, spiegel, my boy, for i shall preside now. beer, or wine, or schnapps, my lads -- call
for what you like, and put it all down to me. never was there such an afternoon in the gré"/zner mann. the foaming flagons of lager and the
green-necked bottles of rhenish circulated merrily. by degrees the students lost their shyness in the presence of their professor. as for him, he shouted, he sang, he roared,
he balanced a long tobacco-pipe upon his nose, and offered to run a hundred yards against any member of the company. the kellner and the barmaid whispered to
each other outside the door their astonishment at such proceedings on the part of a regius professor of the ancient university of keinplatz. they had still more to
whisper about afterwards, for the learned man cracked the kellner s crown, and kissed the barmaid behind the kitchen door. "gentlemen," said the professor, standing up, albeit somewhat
totteringly, at the end of the table, and balancing his high old-fashioned wine glass in his bony hand, "i must now explain to you what is the cause
of this festivity." "hear! hear!" roared the students, hammering their beer glasses against the table; "a speech, a speech." -- silence for a speech!" "the fact is, my
friends," said the professor, beaming through his spectacles, "i hope very soon to be married." "married!" cried a student, bolder than the others. "is madame dead, then
who?" "why, madame von baumgarten, of course." "ha, ha!" laughed the professor; "i can see, then, that you know all about my former difficulties. no, she is not
dead, but i have reason to believe that she will not oppose my marriage." "that is very accommodating of her," remarked one of the company. "in fact," said
the professor, "i hope that she will now be induced to aid me in getting a wife. she and i never took to each other very much; but
now i hope all that may be ended, and when i marry she will come and stay with me." "what a happy family!" exclaimed some wag. yes, indeed;
and i hope you will come to my wedding, all of you. i won t mention names, but here is to my little bride!" and the professor waved
his glass "here s to his little bride!" roared the roysterers, with shouts of laughter. "here s her health. sie soll leben -- hoch!" and so the fun
waxed still more fast and furious, while each young fellow followed the professor s example, and drank a toast to the girl of his heart. while all this
festivity had been going on at the gré"/gner mann, a very different scene had been enacted elsewhere. young fritz von hartmann, with a solemn face and a reserved
manner, had, after the experiment, consulted and adjusted some mathematical instruments; after which, with a few peremptory words to the ianitor, he had walked out into the street
and wended his way slowly in the direction of the house of the professor. as he walked he saw von althaus, the professor of anatomy, in front of
him, and quickening his pace he overtook him. "i say, von althaus," he exclaimed, tapping him on the sleeve, "you were asking me for some information the other
day concerning the middle coat of the cerebral arteries. now i find -- " "donnerwetter!" shouted von althaus, who was a peppery old fellow. "what the deuce do
you mean by your impertinence! i ll have you up before the academical senate for this, sir": with which threat he turned on his heel and hurried
?" "madame
