My son, despise not the chastening of the Lord ,' neither be weary of his correction : for whom the

Lord loveth he correcteth .' even as a father the son in whom he delighteth. Happy is the man that

findeth wisdom, and the man that getteth understanding : for the merchandise of it is better than the merchandise of
silver, and the gain thereof than fine gold. She is more precious than rubies : and all the things thou

canst desire are not to be compared unto her. Length of days is in her right hand ; and in

her left hand riches and honor. Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace. She is

a tree of life to them that lay hold upon her : and happy is every one that retaineth her.

The Lord by wisdom hath founded the earth ; 3 4 5 6 7 .9 9 10 11 12 13

14 15 16 17 18 19 1407 Proverbs 3 by understanding hath he established the heavens. By his knowledge the
depths are broken up, and the clouds drop down the dew. My son, let not them depart from thine eyes

: keep sound wisdom and discretion : so shall they be life unto thy soul, and grace to thy neck.

Then shalt thou Walk in thy way safely, and thy foot shall not stumble. when thou liest down, thou shalt
not be afraid : yea, thou shalt lie down, and thy sleep shall be sweet. Be not afraid of sudden

fear, neither of the desolation of the wicked, when it cometh. For the Lord shall be thy confidence, and shall
keep thy foot from being taken. withhold not good from them to whom it is due, when it is in

the power of thine hand to do it. Say not unto thy neighbor, Go, and come again, and tomorrow 9

will give ,' when thou hast it by thee. Devise not evil against thy neighbor, seeing he dwelleth securely by
thee. Strive not with a man without cause, if he have done thee no harm. Envy thou not the oppressor,

and choose none of his ways. For the froward is abomination to the Lord : but his secret is with

the righteous. The curse of the Lord is in the house of the wicked : but he blesseth the habitation

of the iust. Surely he scorneth the scorners : but he giveth grace unto the lowly. The wise shall inherit
glory : but shame shall be the promotion of fools. 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29

30 31 32 33 34 35 1408 Proverbs 4 4 The Eeneficence of wisdom Hear, ye children, the instruction of

a father, and attend to know understanding. For 9 give you good doctrine, forsake ye not my law. For '7
was my father s son, tender and only beloved in the sight of my mother. He taught me also, and

said unto me, Let thine heart retain my words : keep my commandments, and live. Get wisdom, get understanding :
forget it not ; neither decline from the words of my mouth. Forsake her not, and she shall preserve thee

.' love her, and she shall keep thee. wisdom is the principal thing ; therefore get wisdom : and with

all thy getting get understanding. Exalt her, and she shall promote thee : she shall bring thee to honor, when
thou dost embrace her. She shall give to thine head an ornament of grace : a crown of glory shall

she deliver to thee. Hear, O my son, and receive my sayings .' and the years of thy life shall

be many. ‘7 have taught thee in the way of wisdom ; 7 have led thee in right paths. when

thou goest, thy steps shall not be straitened I and when thou runnest, thou shalt not stumble. Take fast hold
of instruction .' let her not go : keep her ,' for she is thy life. Enter not into the

path of the wicked, and go not in the way of evil men. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7

8 9 10 11 12 13 14 1409 Proverbs 5 Avoid it, pass not by it, turn from it, and

pass away. For they sleep not, except they have done mischief ,' and their sleep is taken away, unless they
cause some to fall. For they eat the bread of wickedness, and drink the wine of violence. But the path

of the iust is as the shining light, that shineth more and more unto the perfect day. The way of

the wicked is as darkness : they know not at what they stumble. My son, attend to my words ,'

incline thine ear unto my sayings. Let them not depart from thine eyes ; keep them in the midst of

thine heart. For they are life unto those that find them, and health to all their flesh. Keep thy heart

with all diligence I for out of it are the issues of life. Put away from thee a froward mouth,

and perverse lips put far from thee. Let thine eyes look right on, and let thine eyelids look straight before
thee. Ponder the path of thy feet, and let all thy ways be established. Turn not to the right hand

nor to the left .' remove thy foot from evil. 5 warning against Unchastity My son, attend unto my wisdom,
and bow thine ear to my understanding .' that thou mayest regard discretion, and that thy lips may keep knowledge.
15 3'6 17 18 1.9 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 1 2 1470 Proverbs 5 For the

lips of a strange woman drop as a honeycomb, and her mouth is smoother than oil : but her end

is bitter as Wormwood, sharp as a two-edged sword. Her feet go down to death ; her steps take hold

on hell. Lest thou shouldest ponder the path of life, her ways are movable, that thou canst not know them.
Hear me now therefore, 0 ye children, and depart not from the words of my mouth. Remove thy way far
from her, and come not nigh the door of her house .' lest thou give thine honor unto others, and

thy years unto the cruel : lest strangers be filled with thy wealth ; and thy labors be in the

house of a stranger ; and thou mourn at the last, when thy flesh and thy body are consumed, and

say, How have 7 hated instruction, and my heart despised reproof ,' and have not obeyed the voice of

