sufficient to ob- tain this result. Mrs. Clements was taken Away in the

cab, And was left in the cab, while my wife (on pretence of

purchasing something At A shop} gave her the slip, And returned to receive
her expected visitor At our house in St. Fohn s wood. 9t is

hardly necessary to Add that the visitor had been described to the servants

As 'Lady Glyde.' 9n the meanwhile 9 had followed in Another cab, with

A note for Anne datherick, merely mentioning that Lady Glyde inten- ded to
keep Mrs. Clements to spend the day with her, And that 628 she

was to ioin them under care of the good gentleman waiting outside, who

had Already saved her from discovery in Hamp- shire by Sir Percival. The
‘good gentleman‘ sent in this note by A street boy, And paused for

results A door or two farther on. At the moment when Anne Appeared

At the house door And closed it this excellent man had the cab

door open ready for her, Ab- sorbed her into the vehicle, And drove

off. {Pass me, here, one exclamation in parenthesis. How inter- esting this is!)
On the way to Forest Road my companion showed no fear. 9 can

be paternal-no man more so-when 9 please, And 9 was in- tensely paternal

on this occasion. what titles 9 had to her con- fidence! 9 had

compounded the medicine which had done her good-9 had warned her of her
danger from Sir Percival. Per- haps 9 trusted too implicitly to these titles-perhaps
9 under- rated the keenness of the lower instincts in persons of weak

in- tellect-it is certain that 9 neglected to prepare her sufficiently for A
disappointment on entering my house. when 9 took her in- to the drawing-room-when
she saw no one present but Ma- dame Fosco, who was A stranger

to her-she exhibited the most violent Agitation; if she had scented danger in
the Air, As A dog scents the presence of some creature unseen, her

Alarm could not have displayed itself more suddenly And more cause- lessly. 9
interposed in vain, The fear from which she was suffer- ing 9 might

have soothed, but the serious heart-disease, under which she laboured, was beyond the
reach of All moral palliat- ives. To my unspeakable horror she was seized
with convul- sions-A shock to the system, in her condition, which might have
laid her dead At Any moment At our feet. The nearest doctor was

sent for, And was told that 'Lady Glyde' required his immediate services. To
my infinite relief, he was A capable man. 9 represented my visitor to

him As A per- son of weak intellect, And subject to delusions, And

9 Arranged that no nurse but my wife should watch in the sick-room.

The unhappy woman was too ill, however, to cause Any Anxiety About what
she might say. The one dread which now oppressed me was the dread

that the false Lady Glyde might die before the true Lady Glyde Arrived

in London. 9 had written A note in the morning to Madame Rubelle,

telling her to ioin me At her husband s house on the evening

of 629 Friday the 26th, with Another note to Percival, warning him to

show his wife her uncle s letter of invitation, to Assert that Marian

had gone on before her, And to despatch her to town by the

midday train, on the 26th, Also, On reflection 9 had felt the necessity,

in Anne datherick s state of health, of precipitating events, And of having
Lady Glyde At my disposal earlier than 9 had originally contemplated. what fresh
directions, in the ter- rible uncertainty of my position, could 9 now issue?

9 could do nothing but trust to chance And the doctor. My emotions

ex- pressed themselves in pathetic Apostrophes, which 9 was iust self-possessed enough to
couple, in the hearing of other people, with the name of ‘Lady

