i went in search of the information that you asked for. phyllis, who lives in the headmaster s office, was
the only one in his office willing to let me in on the sordid details of what goes on in
there. the portraits in the headmaster s office are bound to serve him, you see, but every so often one
of them breaks ranks. phyllis has never liked professor black. albus was champing at the bit to know what professor
longbottom had fetched for professor black. the sleepy second portrait seemed to notice how impatient he was. oh hurry up,
old chap, the second portrait said to the first. have you forgotten that this one is eleven years old." he
does not have time immemorial to sit and listen to a centuries old portrait like you blathering on! professor longbottom
acquired a root from the undying yew tree in the forbidden forest, the first portrait said. that is what made
the centaurs so angry. a root from the undying yew, albus said, frowning. thank you so very much! it was
a pleasure doing business with you! the first portrait called out after albus, but he had already sprinted off towards
the library. five hours later albus had paged through hundreds of books from the library and was near despair, having
been unable to find anything on the undying yew. it was only the fortuitous arrival of fawkes that saved him
from insanity. the phoenix took albus to a part of the restricted section that was too dark for the librarian
to see that he was in there. fawkes used his beak to point out a book, which albus quickly dusted
off and opened. it was called the darkest properties of the darkest plants. there was only a tiny section devoted
to the undying yew, and an even smaller sub-section on the roots of the undying yew. albus heart pounded as
he read it. the magic imbedded within the roots of the undying yew is among the most powerful in the
world. it is so powerful, that even a single crushing of the root can create a draught so toxic that
the fumes can kill a human being. as such, few have ever experimented with root of undying yew. however, it
is believed that the root of the undying yew contains the magic responsible for the tree s immortality. it has
often been speculated that, if a wizard could master the secret of the undying yew root, then said wizard could
compose themselves a draught of immortality or revitalisation. albus did not need to read the paragraph again. professor black was
after immortality. if he succeeded in achieving it, then he could certainly appoint professor fudge as headmaster of hogwarts. because,
after all, nobody would be able to stop him, would they? but what albus still could not understand was: what
did he have to do with it? professor black had said, all we need now is dumbledore . was the
blood of an eleven-year-old wizard part of the draught of immortality? far from alleviating his concerns, the discovery of what
professor longbottom had the only thing that gave albus peace of mind enough to sleep over the weeks that followed
was the fact that professor black had not yet taken over the wizarding world and appointed professor fudge as headmaster
of hogwarts. at the very least it meant that the evil headmaster had not yet discovered how to create a
draught of immortality from the root of undying yew currently in his possession. even so, albus walked around the school
with half a mind to keep looking over his shoulder. professor black needed him for some reason, and he did
not know when the headmaster was going to act against him. unfortunately for albus, support was not forthcoming from the
pirates. they and the rest of the school were preoccupied with the next round of quidditch matches. slytherin were to
play ravenclaw first up, and the saturday after would see gryffindor play against the hopeless hufflepuffs. the house championship was
as close as it had ever been. slytherin had regained the lead thanks to the generosity of professor fudge, but
were only fifty points ahead of gryffindor, who were only ten points ahead of ravenclaw. as such three houses were
barracking for a ravenclaw win over slytherin and even the hufflepuffs did not seem that interested in beating gryffindor. it
was a sign of how badly everyone else wanted to see slytherin lose the house championship at the end of
the year. albus was not in the slightest bit interested in the latest round of quidditch, even though he had
been the star seeker in gryffindor s now famous win over slytherin back in october. ionathan glastonbury had taken back
his place as seeker in the gryffindor team, so albus was not involved. he had ohure things on his mind.
that is, until someone completely unexpected confronted him. it was the end of a gruelling morning of classes monday, the
week of ravenclaws match against slytherin. the gryffindors had just finished a tough lesson of transfiguration with the ravenclaws. professor
bones had been grilling them on turning pigeons into tea cosies, and albus head hurt. he knew he would be
spending all night reading a better way to transfigure. just as albus trudged out the classroom into the corridor with
the ohure gryffindor first years, he felt something brush against his leg. next thing he knew, his bag had ripped
and all his books, parchments and ink bottles were tumbling to the ground. just my luck, said albus, clicking his
tongue. he bent down to collect all his equipment. william, mars and alabaster started as if to help him. albus
waved them away. don t worry about it. you chaps head off for lunch. i will be down in a
trice. the pirates shrugged their shoulders and sauntered off to lunch. albus knew that someone had cast a spell to
rip his bag open. it was a sure sign that someone wanted to talk to him alone. but he
