temple called ryoan-ii. not long after katsumoto s death, his villa and other estate buildings were set on fire during
the onin war and joined the general ruin of much of the rest of kyoto. in the last decade of
the fifteenth century the burned-out estate was restored by katsumoto s son, but in replacing the buildings he chose a
new style of zen architecture known as shoin, which included a special bay window and desk modeled after those in
chinese ch an monasteries. the shoin style had been recently popularized in kyoto by yoshimasa, who chose the design for
several buildings surrounding his silver pavilion. the shoin window overlooked the lake-and-island garden, but since the later zen monks who
controlled the estate had no interest in decorative landscape art, they walled off a small courtyard in front of the
window and installed a flat kare sansui garden for contemplation, which soon eclipsed in interest the older lake-and-island landscape. shortly
thereafter the shoin building was in turn destroyed by fire, giving the monks an excuse to bring in a pavilion
with a long viewing veranda from the neighboring seigen-in temple. this veranda, which was positioned along the long axis of
the kare sansui garden, now permits group meditation, something not possible from the single window of the earlier shoin structure.
modern visitors to ryoan-ii still pass through the older landscape garden en route to the main temple pavilion. from this
vantage point only the outer wall of the sand-and-stone garden can be seen; there is no hint of what lies
inside. on the temple steps the fragrance of incense mingles with the natural perfume of the ancient trees which line
the pathways of the lake. as one enters the dimly lighted hallway of the temple, street shoes are replaced by
noiseless, cushioned slippers. shod in silence, visitors walk along the temple hallways onto the long ho/"o veranda facing the garden,
where the brilliance of the shimmering sand washes unexpectedly over the senses. the effect is sudden and striking. what one
sees, in purely prosaic terms, is an area of rippled sand about the size of a tennis court, set about
with fifteen not particularly unusual (by ashikaga standards) stones arrayed in five distinct clusters. the white sand is raked lengthwise
(a routine task for a lay brother), and concentric circles are traced around each of the stones, imparting an illusion
of ripples. in the garden proper there is not a tree, indeed not a blade of grass, to be seen;
the only suggestion of living matter is the bed of ancient moss in which each group of stones lies nestled.
on the three sides of the garden opposite the veranda stands the ancient courtyard wall, whose oil-stained earthen brown contrasts
splendidly with the pure white sand. above the wall, which is capped with black clay tile in chinese fashion, one
can see the tall trees of the landscape garden, obscuring what must once have been a grand view of old
kyoto to the south. each of the five clusters of stones seems balanced around its own center of gravity, and
the clusters, in turn, appear to be balanced with one another-with the two groups of stones on the left being
approximately equal in mass to the three groups on the right. as is the case in most ashikaga gardens, each
grouping is dominated by one obviously assertive member, against which the smaller, less authoritative stones strain for prominence, producing a
sense of tension. simultaneously, there is a feeling of strength about each of the groups, since each cluster is set
on an island of mossy soil, which acts as a base to unite the assemblages. aesthetic stability is also achieved
by the placement of the stones at sufficient depth (or apparent depth) within their nest of moss so that only
their tips seem to protrude above the floor of the garden. the stones are set in two groups of two
stones, two groups of three, and one group of five. each of these groupings displays one or another of the
various ashikaga garden conventions. both groups of two stones make explicit use of contrasting shapes between their members, a standard
zen device. one of the pairs is composed of a long, vertical rock set like an upturned blade in the
sand, with a companion that is hardly more than a negligible lump, a token foil. the other pair has one
sharp-sided vertical stone with a flat plateau as a top, accompanied by a larger round rock which spreads at the
base. as has been noted, the ashikaga gardeners prized flat-topped stones highly because of their resemblance to the angular brushstrokes
of certain zen ink painters. life, in this case, was made to imitate art, or rather sculptural art was made
to imitate the pictorial. both pairs of stones are situated slightly off the lengthwise axis of the garden, maintaining the
asymmetry considered so essential. in the two groups of three stones, the intent is to establish the visual pre-eminence of
the largest member and to flank it with two comparatively insignificant smaller stones-usually differentiated in shape and attitude-thereby forming a
vertical triangle with the peak of the largest stone representing the apex. this particular arrangement was so common in ashikaga
gardens that it became known as the "three-deity" stone setting, supposedly a pious reference to a buddhist legend but probably
merely a convenient tag for a standardized artistic device, the last grouping is five stones, since arrangements of four were
considered too symmetrical by zen gardeners. in this case, the group is dominated by one large central boulder with four
ancillary rocks spread about its base like the feet of a granite beast. such, in physical terms, is the arrangement
of the garden, and when so described it seems undeserving of all the acclaim. its subiective qualities tell a bit
more of the story, it seems clear that the inclination of the stones is intended to evoke a sense of
motion, for they have all been placed with their longer axis corresponding to that of the garden. this quality
