was a russian or pole who almost always returned with a package of books, and passed many hours writing near

the patio window. from the very first the spaniard took him to be a mysterious man, probably a very distinguished

one a true hero of a novel. the foreign appearance of this tchernoff made a great impression upon him his

dishevelled beard, and oily locks, his spectacles upon a large nose that seemed deformed by a daggerthrust. there emanated from

him, like an invisible nimbus, an odor of cheap wine and ?oiled clothing. when argen?ola caught a glimpse of him

through the service door he would say to himself, ‘ah, friend tchernoff is returning,‘ and thereupon he would saunter out

to the stairway in order to have a chat with his neighbor. for a long time the stranger discouraged all

approach to his quarters, which fact led the spaniard to infer that he devoted himself to alchemy and kindred mysteries.

when he finally was allowed to enter he saw only books, many books, books everywhere scattered on the floor, heaped

upon benches, piled in corners, overflowing on to brokendown chairs, old tables, and a bed that was only made up

now and then when the owner, alarmed by the increasing invasion of dust and cobwebs, was obliged to call in

the aid of his friend, the concierge. argen.’ola finally realized, not without a certain disenchantment, that there was nothing mysterious
in the life of the man. what he was writing near the window were merely translations, ?ome of them ordered,

others volunteer work for the ?ocialist periodicals. the only marvellous thing about him was the quantity of languages that he

knew. ‘he knows them all,‘ said the spaniard, when describing their neighbor to desnoyers. ‘he has only to hear of

a new one to master it. he holds the key, the secret of all languages, living or dead. he speaks

castilian as well as we do, and yet he has never been in a spanishspeaking country.‘ argen?ola again felt a

thrill of mystery upon reading the titles of many of the volumes. the maiority were old books, many of them

in languages that he was not able to decipher, picked up for a ?ong at secondhand shops or on the

book stands installed upon the parapets of the seine. only a man holding the key of tongues could get together

such volumes. an atmosphere of mysticism, of superhuman insight, of secrets intact for many centuries appeared to emanate from these
heaps of dusty volumes with wormeaten leaves. and mixed with these ancient tomes were others red and conspicuous, pamphlets of
?ocialistic propaganda, leaflets in all the languages of europe and periodicals many periodicals, with revolutionary titles. tchernoff did not appear
to enioy visits and conversation. he would smile enigmatically into his black beard, and was very sparing with his words

?o as to shorten the interview. but argen?ola possessed the means of winning over this sullen per?onage. it was only

necessary for him to wink one eye with the expressive invitation, ‘do we go?‘ and the two would ?oon be

settled on a bench in the kitchen of desnoyers studio, opposite a bottle which had come from the avenue victor

hugo. the costly wines of don marcelo made the russian more communicative, although, in spite of this aid, the spaniard

learned little of his neighbor s real existence. .’ometimes he would mention iaurés and other .’ocialistic orators. his surest means

of existence was the translation of periodicals or party papers. on various occasions the name of siberia escaped from his

lips, and he admitted that he had been there a long time,’ but he did not care to talk about

a country visited against his will. he would merely smile modestly, showing plainly that he did not wish to make

any further revelations. the morning after the return of iulio desnoyers, while argen.’ola was talking on the stairway with tchernoff,
the bell rang. how annoying! the russian, who was well up in advanced politics, was iust explaining the plans advanced

by /aurés. there were still many who hoped that war might be averted. he had his motives for doubting it....

he, tchernoff, was commenting on these illusions with the smile of a flatnosetl sphinx when the bell rang for a

second time, .’o that argen?ola was obliged to break away from his interesting friend, and run to open the main

door, a gentleman wished to see /'ulio, he spoke very correct french, though his accent was a revelation for argen?ola.

upon going into the bedroom in search of his master, who was /'ust arising, he said confidently, 'it s the

cousin from berlin who has come to say goodbye. it could not be anyone else.‘ when the three came together

in the studio, desnoyers presented his comrade, in order that the visitor might not make any mistake in regard to

his .’ocial status. ‘i have heard him spoken of. the gentleman is argen.’ola, a very deserving youth.‘ doctor iulius von

hartrott said this with the selfsufficiency of a man who knows everything and wishes to be agreeable to an inferior,

conceding him the alms of his attention. the two cousins confronted each other with a curiosity not altogether free from

distrust. although closely related, they knew each other very slightly, tacitly admitting complete divergence in opinions and tastes. after slowly
examining the sage, argen?ola came to the conclusion that he looked like an officer dressed as a civilian. he noticed

in his per?on an effort to imitate the ?oldierly when occasionally discarding uniform the ambition of every german burgher wishing
to be taken for the superior class. his trousers were narrow, as though intended to be tucked into cavalry boots.

his coat with two rows of buttons had the contracted waist with very full skirt and upstanding lapels, suggesting vaguely

a military great coat. the reddish moustachios, strong /"aw and shaved head completed his wouldbe martial appearance; but his eyes,
large, darkcircled and nearsighted, were the eyes of a student taking refuge behind great thick glasses which gave him

