her brother to the perpetration of this crime. miss morton had not, however, been directly implicated in the case in any way, either at the inquest or at

the police-court proceedings, and her appearance as the leading witness for the defence came as a surprise upon the public. miss frances morton, who was a tall and
handsome brunette, gave her evidence in a low but clear voice, though it was evident throughout that she was suffering from extreme emotion. she alluded to her engagement
to the doctor, touched briefly upon its termination, which was due, she said, to personal matters connected with his family, and surprised the court by asserting that she
had always considered her brother s resentment to be unreasonable and intemperate, in answer to a direct question from her counsel, she replied that she did not feel
that she had any grievance whatever against dr. lana, and that in her opinion he had acted in a perfectly honourable manner, her brother, on an insufficient knowledge
of the facts, had taken another view, and she was compelled to acknowledge that, in spite of her entreaties, he had uttered threats of personal violence against the
doctor, and had, upon the evening of the tragedy, announced his intention of 'having it out with him.‘ she had done her best to bring him to a

more reasonable frame of mind, but he was very headstrong where his emotions or preiudices were concerned. up to this point the young lady s evidence had appeared
to make against the prisoner rather than in his favour. the questions of her counsel, however, soon put a very different light upon the matter, and disclosed an
unexpected line of defence. mr. humphrey: do you believe your brother to be guilty of this crime? the iudge: i cannot permit that question, mr. humphrey. we are

here to decide upon questions of fact--not of belief. mr. humphrey: do you know that your brother is not guilty of the death of doctor lana? miss morton:

yes. mr. humphrey: how do you know it? miss morton: because dr. lana is not dead. there followed a prolonged sensation in court, which interrupted the examination of
the witness, mr. humphrey: and how do you know, miss morton, that dr. lana is not dead? miss morton: because i have received a letter from him since

the date of his supposed death. mr. humphrey: have you this letter? miss morton: yes, but i should prefer not to show it. mr. humphrey: have you the

envelope? miss morton: yes, it is here. mr. humphrey: what is the post-mark? miss morton: liverpool. mr. humphrey: and the date? miss morton: June the 22nd. mr. humphrey:
that being the day after his alleged death, are you prepared to swear to this handwriting, miss morton? miss morton: certainly. mr. humphrey: i am prepared to call
six other witnesses, my lord, to testify that this letter is in the writing of doctor lana. the iudge: then you must call them tomorrow. mr. porlock carr

(counsel for the prosecution): in the meantime, my lord, we claim possession of this document, so that we may obtain expert evidence as to how far it is

an imitation of the handwriting of the gentleman whom we still confidently assert to be deceased. i need not point out that the theory so unexpectedly sprung upon

us may prove to be a very obvious device adopted by the friends of the prisoner in order to divert this inquiry. i would draw attention to the

fact that the young lady must, according to her own account, have possessed this letter during the proceedings at the inquest and at the police-court. she desires us

to believe that she permitted these to proceed, although she held in her pocket evidence which would at any moment have brought them to an end. mr. humphrey.

can you explain this, miss morton? miss morton: dr. lana desired his secret to be preserved. mr. porlock carr.’ then why have you made this public? miss morton.’

to save my brother, a murmur of sympathy broke out in court, which was instantly suppressed by the fudge. the fudge.’ admitting this line of defence, it lies

with you, mr. humphrey, to throw a light upon who this man is whose body has been recognized by so many friends and patients of dr. lana as

being that of the doctor himself. a iuryman: has anyone up to now expressed any doubt about the matter? mr. porlock carr: not to my knowledge. mr. humphrey:

we hope to make the matter clear. the iudge: then the court adiourns until tomorrow. this new development of the case excited the utmost interest among the general
public. press comment was prevented by the fact that the trial was still undecided, but the question was everywhere argued as to how far there could be truth

in miss morton s declaration, and how far it might be a daring ruse for the purpose of saving her brother. the obvious dilemma in which the missing

doctor stood was that if by any extraordinary chance he was not dead, then he must be held responsible for the death of this unknown man, who

