to the product stage fast and adapted quickly to world markets. xyz s new focus would be on making its
market share grow in the decade ahead, which also meant cracking down on quality and halving the current customer-be-damned response
time on deliveries and service. concerning those last items, product managers would now be required to address customers complaints personally.
she figured that in itself would turn around xyz s substantial quality control debacle overnight. finally, there would be an
immediate crash program to rectify xyz s costly illusion that english was the worldwide language of business. these days, she
explained, the language of business is the one your customer speaks. accordingly all xyz s overseas operatives would be required
to enroll in intensive language training now, including formal study of the history and social customs of their territory. "sounds
like you let him have it with both barrels. keep on like this, and the u.s. of a. may never
be the same." "that s the idea. one company down and about three thousand to go." what s that saying
about a iourney of miles and miles starting with the first step? well, she d taken the step. the future
lay ahead. "hey, can i buy you a drink?" i was winding up the day, the week, "you ve earned
it," "like nothing better." she was repacking her briefcase, "matt, i m having the time of my life. all the
things i ve always wanted to do. this is like a fantasy come true. we re going to pull this
off, wait and see." "could be." i was switching off the lights in my office. "tell you something though, doctor.
i keep wondering what will happen when noda gets through with us." "thoughts?" she glanced back. "well, after iapan takes
over half the companies in this country and starts running them right, then what?" we were headed for the security
doors. "but maybe we ought to talk about that some other time. and place." "i ll think about it tomorrow.
just now i m bushed." "tomorrow, in case you ve lost count, is Saturday. don t know about you, but
i m taking the day off. the hell with /apanese business hours. my daughter comes this weekend," we were saluted
by heavies in the security airlock, then the doors opened. "matter of fact, we re going to eat somewhere down
in soho tonight. care to ioin us? be warned it ll be mostly soy by-products and brown rice." "i d
love to meet her." she looked at me. "matthew walton with a daughter. my god." she laughed. "sorry, matt, but
you really don t seem the father type." "amy s mother said approximately the same thing as she was packing
her bags. but i m now undergoing intensive on-the-iob father training. fact is, i d planned to knock off around
christmas and take her down to our place in the islands, though now i m not sure there ll be
time." "sounds very fatherly. you should go." "i 112 still hoping to." i looked her over again. "well, the hell
with it, why mince words. tell me, tam, how s your love life these days?" she burst out laughing again.
"you haven t changed a bit. not at all." "spare the commentary, okay? just stick to the question." "excuse me,
counselor. the honest answer is it s nonexistent, which you surely must know, since i m here every night till
midnight just as you are," she examined me pointedly. "matthew, could this conceivably be construed as a proposition." to a
horny, bone-tired woman in her moment of mental fatigue?" "it might be a tentative gesture in that direction, i m
a slow mover." "you always were." she finished buttoning her coat. "what time s dinner?" "i ll pick up amy
and buzz you. give us an hour." "think she ll like me? some stranger competing for dad s attention?" "if
she does, it ll be a first." i pushed the down button on the elevator. guess what. matthew walton barely
got a word in edgewise the entire night. then around eleven, in the cab headed home, amy whispered to me
she thought dr, richardson was "kinda neat." was she gonna be my new girlfriend? tell you, it s not always
simple learning to be a father. over the next couple of weeks i began to wonder if the scenario wasn
t going a little too smoothly. everything about noda s setup seemed surprisingly pat. the answers came too easily. was
it all really what it seemed? i should also add that in the fortnight since tarn s first contact with
america s shell-shocked industrialists, the situation had not gone unnoticed in washington. tuesday of the second week iack o donnell
called and left a message downtown with emma, asking if i could arrange a meeting for him with the elusive
matsuo noda. although i d tried to keep iack informed as to developments, he still wanted to confront america s
new age maker face-to-face. "walton," he said when i got back to him, "i just heard your guy s too
busy to meet the press, but maybe he d chat with a close, longtime friend of his american attorney. that
s me, in case you don t recognize the description. why not try and get me in to see him?"
"you re dreaming, iack." i told him that a u.s. senator was about the last person matsuo noda would be
interested in meeting just now. "don t hold your breath, but i ll bring it up and see what he
says," and what do you know! noda declared that nothing would please him more. naturally there had to be a
few ground rules about confidentiality-this was after all a delicate corporate situation-but otherwise he d be delighted to chat. you
could have knocked me over with a feather, thus around two p.m, thursday, iack o donnell arrived at the new
twelfth-floor operation, ready to get the truth or by god know the reason why. after he made his way
