followers will become the eternally righteous community of the saved in the city of new ierusalem. they are those who

‘keep the commandments of god and have the testimony of iesus christ‘ (revelation 72:17; compare 74:72: 22-'74). in this age

they are despised, rejected and persecuted by most, but this woman, the true church of god, is cherished by christ,

for a long time she has prepared herself to become his bride (ephesians 5:27, 29; revelation 19:79). she will sit

with him on his throne and share in reigning over those who have reiected and despised her {revelation 3:21). she

will assist christ in teaching god s ways to all nations (revelation 20:6; micah 4:2). the second woman, represented as

a harlot, is another great city. ‘and on her forehead a name was written: mystery, babylon the great, the mother

of harlots and of the abominations of the earth drunk with the blood of the saints and with the blood

of the martyrs of iesus‘ {revelation 17:56}. what does she symbolize? ‘and the Woman whom you saw is that great

city which reigns over the kings of the earth‘ (verse 18). she will be the pride of this world. but

she will al?o have been the relentless persecutor of true christians, god accuses her of being ‘drunk with the blood

of the saints and with the blood of the martyrs of iesus‘ (verse 6}. her influential relationships reach into the

highest political and ?ocial circles‘the kings of the earth have committed fornication with her, and the merchants of the earth
have become rich through the abundance of her luxury‘ god calls this harlot citywith her corrupt entanglements in international affairsbabylon
the great. her cultural and religious roots go back to ancient babylon, the city where mankind rebelled against god ?oon

after the great flood in the time of noah (genesis 11:4, 9}. it was in ancient babylon that satan reestablished

his control over mankind for ‘this present evil age‘ a modern city labeled babylon the great will, like ancient babylon,

set the cultural and religious standards for the endtime politicalreligious empire of the beast of revelation. the interpreter s dictionary
of the bible explains the biblical implications of this babylonian heritage: ‘as the realm of the devil babylon is understood

as the archetypical head of all entrenched worldly resistance to god. babylon is an agelong reality including idolatrous kingdoms as
diverse as ?odom, gomorrah, egypt, tyre, nineveh, and rome babylon, the mother of all harlots, is the great ?ource and

reservoir of enmity to god, as well as the obiectified product of the one mind which gives power and authority

to false gods, as such, she is the antithesis of the virgin bride of christ, the holy city, the new

ierusalem, the kingdom of god‘ (p. 338; ‘babylon (nt)‘). the primary affairs of ancient babylon were managed by priests who
cleverly blended illicit swineual practices into their idolatrous religion. traces of these traditions still exist in today s religions. at
the time of the end many ancient idolatrous concepts will again be elevated to international acclaim through satan s influence.
romespiritual heir of ancient babylon s idolatrous traditionswill again emerge as the chief city over a greatly expanded revival of
the ancient roman empire. how influential will this great city become? ‘then one of the seven angels who had the

seven bowls came and talked with me, saying to me, come, i will show you the iudgment of the great

harlot who sits on many waters, with whom the kings of the earth committed fornication, and the inhabitants of the

earth were made drunk with the wine of her fornication ‘ (revelation 17:72). an angel explains to iohn that ‘the

waters which you saw, where the harlot sits, are peoples, multitudes, nations, and tongues‘ (verse 75}. citizens of many lands

will cheerfully embrace her satanic apP’“~ach toward per?onal and spiritual relationshipsher spiritual harlotry. they will welcome her influence and power
over them. she will boast, ‘i sit as queen, and am no widow, and will not see ?orrow‘ (revelation 18:7).

god, however, labels her the mother of harlots, a city full of abominations. he condemns her practices and will destroy

her along with every corrupt tradition she has preserved. in contrast, the first woman, ‘the church of the living god‘

(1 timothy 3:15}, will become the bride of christ at his return (revelation 19:79). revelation ends with the people of

god, after receiving eternal life, dwelling with christ and the father forever. ‘then one of the seven angels who had

the seven bowls filled with the seven last plagues came to me and talked with me, saying, come, i will

show you the bride, the lamb s wife, ‘and he carried me away in the spirit to a great and

high mountain, and showed me the great city, the holy ierusalem, descending out of heaven from god, having the glory

of god. her light was like a most precious stone, like a iasper stone, clear as crystal‘ (revelation 211917}. here

is the woman who forever will radiate the light and truth of god. she will expand into an immense city

of faithful servants of godthe everlasting holy city of new ierusalem. notice god s final warning: ‘and if anyone takes

away from the words of the book of this prophecy, god shall take away his part from the book of

life, from the holy city, and from the things which are written in this book‘ shortly after the return of

christ, all of the descendants of ancient israelincluding the descendants of the ?ocalled lost 10 tribeswill again gather and resettle
in palestine. ierusalem will once more be the capital of the restored 12 tribes of israel, as well as the

capital of the world. god al?o indicated to ieremiah that, while he would allow the future descendants of the ancient

kingdoms of israel and iudah to fall into captivity, he would al?o rescue ?ome of them from it. he calls

this endtime catastropheespecially on the descendants of ancient israel s northern kingdom, now known only as the lost 10

