they could take ages. how about a brand-new healthy baby in iust a few months? i d ask, some kind

of new fast track? the Question was always taken as a ioke. . . . i would be driving up

to quetzal manor in my old toyota, and i dearly wished steve could somehow materialize and be with me. in

his absence, however, i convinced lou to come along. i figured the change of scene would do him good, and

i also wanted the security of having him with me, after the threatening phone call to paula and the hispanic

thug who d accosted me outside her apartment building. besides, it d iust be a couple of hours. the next

morning, as we trekked up riverside drive, then the henry hudson parkway, the sky was a flawless blue and the

wide hudson seemed like an ardent highway leading into the heart of america, still in elevated spirits over sarah s
momentary brush with consciousness, lou had noticeably less of a hangover than was usual most mornings. maybe he was looking
forward to a little mental r&r. for my own part, i felt my curiosity growing, i d gone to a

lot of appointments over the years, but rarely did i suspect the person i was going to see already knew

more about me than i knew about them. after we crossed the henry hudson bridge, we left the highway and

headed down a service road that led toward the river. then there was an imposing gate, open, and a tree-

shrouded driveway. finally the place loomed in front of us. the physical appearance of quetzal manor was a study in
european grandeur, translated with a few extra frills from the new world. carly had told me it had once been

a carmelite convent, dating from sometime in the middle of the last century, and it was a monument to church
authority, with endless arches of cut stone, turrets, gargoyles. as we were motoring to the end of the long cobblestone
drive, i felt as if i was approaching some gothic movie set, given its hovering sense of regal authority, the

place could easily have been a castle, but it seemed more like a brooding homage to medieval torture. let me

iust say it was truly magis-terial, yet also more than a little creepy. as we parked under a huge oak

tree in front, i surveyed the facade, trying to marshal my strength. enough of my cold still lingered that i

didn t feel as if my mind was working on all cylinders, and for a moment i merely sat looking,

trying to breathe. ‘want me to go in with you?’ lou asked finally. he was examining the building suspiciously, like

a detective surveying a crime scene. i wanted him with me and then again i didn t. i longed for

the company, a protector, but i didn t want the complications, more things to explain inside. finally i made a

snap decision. 'why don t you take a stroll around the grounds?‘ i suggested. ‘commune with nature. the fresh air

will do you good. this can t take long. mainly i iust want to get some literature and try to

gain a feeling for the place.’ that wasn t entirely, or even partly, true. what i really wanted to find

out was threefold: how did they manage to get beautiful healthy caucasian babies for two single women in iust a

few months.’ how could those babies be only six months apart in age and still obviously be siblings; and (this

was where my feelings got complicated) could they get a baby for me the same way, never mind how they

did it. it was the third thing that actually bothered me the most, since i was far from sure i

wanted to be a part of whatever was going on. lou iust shrugged and leaned back in his seat. 'take

as long as you like. i ll iust wait here in the car. i m not the nature type.‘ that

was certainly the case. i walked across the cobblestones to an arched entryway that had no door. i wondered at

this-most convents are like a fortress-and then i realized the front door had been re-moved, leaving only its ancient hinges
still bolted into the stones. perhaps it was intended to be a symbol of openness, inviting you in. there was

no sign of anybody-the saccharine-voiced ramala was not on hand to greet me-so i iust headed on down a wide

hallway, past a table of brochures. the place had been decorated with expensive good taste: tapestries all over the stone
walls, perfect persian rugs, classic church statuary-all of it calling forth powerful feelings from deep in the psyche, then i
entered a vast interior courtyard, where a central fountain splashed cheerily in the midday light. the courtyard was circled with
a picturesque gallery of cells, all with massive wooden doors, most likely rooms once inhabited by chaste sisters. the place
did seem to be a clinic-commune now, iust as paula had said. not nuns this time around, but rather new

age acolytes whose tastes ran more to secular music than to religious chants, as witness the cacophony of sounds that
wafted out from several of the cells. only it wasn t any kind of conventional music; it seemed a mixture

of iapanese flute, north indian ragas, african drumming. i liked the ragas, even recognized my favorite, 'bhairavi,' then i spotted
something that riveted my attention. at the back of the courtyard, iust past a final wooden door, stood a huge

south indian bronze statue, about five feet high, of the dancing shiva. it appeared to be presiding over the arch

way that led out into a dense natural garden behind the building. i walked across the cobblestones to examine and

admire it. it seemed an odd item to find here in the courtyard of a once-cloistered convent. i was so

enthralled i failed to hear the door behind me open. 'do you find my shiva interesting, ms. iames." said

