movements of half-nomad populations. This instability of boundaries led to ethnic cleansing, to numerous international congresses, to fitful wars, "in an effort
to justify a distinct existence and identity, thousands of "scholars" embarked on Herculean efforts of inventing histories for their newly emergent nations,
"inevitably, these histories conflicted and led to yet more bloodshed. A land fertilized by blood produces harvests of bloated corpses. In the
Balkans people fight for their very own identity. They aspire to purity, albeit racial, and to boundaries, albeit of the abstract kind.
It is, perhaps, the kernel of this Greek tragedy: that real people are sacrificing real people on the altar of the abstract.
It is a battle of tastes, a clash of preferences, an Armageddon of opinions, judgements, lessons, Armies are still moved by ancient
events, by symbols, by fiery speeches, by abstract, diffuse notions. "it is a land devoid of its present, where the past and
future reign supreme. No syllogism, no logic, no theory can referee that which cannot be decided but by the compelling thrust of
the sword. "we versus They" - they, the aliens. Threatened by the otherness of others, Homo Balkanus succumbs to the protection of
the collective. A dual track: an individualist against the authorities - a mindless robot against all others, the foreigners, the strangers, the
occupiers. The Violent acting out of this schizophrenia is often referred to as "the history of the Balkans", This spastic nature was
further exacerbated by the egregious behaviour of the superpowers. Unfortunately possessed of strategic import, the Balkan was ravaged by geopolitics, Turks and
Bulgarians and Hungarians and Austrians and Russians and Britons and Germans and Communists and the warplanes of NATO - the apocalyptic horsemen
in the mountains and rivers and valleys and sunsets of this otherworldly, tortured piece of land. Raped by its protectors, impregnated by
the demon seeds of global interests and their ruthless pursuit - the Balkan was transformed into a horror chamber of amputated, zombie
nations, a veritable hellish scene. Many a Pomeranian grenadier bequeathed their bones to the Balkans but Pomeranian grenadiers came and went while
the people of the Balkan languished. Thus, it was not difficult to foster a "we" against every "They" {or imagined "They"). A
crossroads of faultlines, a confluence of tectonic clashes - the Balkan always obliged, Religion came handy in this trade of hate, Orthodox
Serbs fought Muslim Serbs in Bosnia {the latter were forced to convert by the Turks hundreds of years ago}, Catholic Croats fought
Orthodox Serbs. And Bulgarians (a Turkic tribe} expelled the Turks in 1I8I, having compelled them to change their Muslim names to Bulgarian
sounding ones in II84. Race was useful in the agitated effort to prevail. Albanians are of Vllyrian origin, The Greeks regard the
Macedonians as upstart Slavs. The Bulgarians regard the Macedonians as rebel Bulgarians. The Macedonian regard the Bulgarians as Tartars (that is, Barbarian
and Turkish). The Slovenes and the Croats and, yes, the Hungarians claim not to belong in this cauldron of seething, venomous emotions.
And culture was used abundantly in the Balkan conflicts. where was the Cyrillic alphabet invented (Macedonia, Greece, Bulgaria) and by whom (Greeks,
Macedonians, Bulgarians). Are some nations mere inventions? {the Bulgarians say this about the Macedonians). Are some languages one and the same? Minorities
are either cleansed or denied out of existence. The Greek still claim that there are no minorities in Greece, only Greeks with
different religions. The Bulgars in Greece used to be "Bulgarophone Greeks". The Balkan is the eternal hunting grounds of oxymorons, tautologies and
logical fallacies. "it is here that intellectuals usually step in {see my article: "The Poets and the Eclipse"). But the Balkan has
no intelligentsia in the Russian or even American sense. "it has no one to buck the trend, to play the non conforming,
to rattle, to provoke, to call upon one s conscience. "it does not have this channel to {other} ideas and view called
"intellectuals". "It is this last point which makes me the most pessimistic. The Balkan is a body without a brain. Note -
The Poor Nation s Defense Mechanisms All the countries in the mutilated post-Communist parts of Europe inevitably ended up poor. Yet, as
opposed to their neighbors, some polities failed to alleviate their misery or ameliorate their dire predicament, The denizens of these states are
not only impoverished - they also feel like losers and failures. To avoid confronting such unpalatable truths and to fend off a
tormenting self-image, the citizenry of these places developed a host of psychological defense mechanisms, 1, Magical Thinking The belief in a fantastic
world in which miracles occur, saviors materialize, one is immune to the consequences of one s inaction, and all ends well, regardless
of current realities. The leaders of such countries provide their voters with fairy tales and grandiose fantasies about multi-billion dollar investments, which
typically never materialize. worse still, this obsessive preoccupation with deus-ex-machina salvation-by-outsiders detracts from and distracts the scarce human resources at the disposal
of the government. As a result, the authorities neglect to tackle the most pressing problems facing their nation: unemployment, dysfunctional institutions, and
venality. "In the meantime, asset bubbles - both in real estate and in the bloated and much-manipulated stock exchange - imperil the
country s financial system. 2. Messianic-Religious Leadership From the Caucasus to the republics of former Yugoslavia, leaders of economically decrepit countries in
the region present themselves as either Messiah-like saviors or martyrs to the cause, hounded by a "hate-filled and jealous" opposition, or victimized
by outside forces. Such leaders ostentatiously "dedicate themselves" to the nation, forsaking a private life or worldly pleasures. Their subjects crave for
honest and hard-working leadership and so hungrily succumb to the allure of ceaseless media campaigns, which border on a personality cult. They
suspend their disbelief and dispense with rationality. The Dear Leader becomes the focal point of their hopes and dreams while other institutions
- parliament, the iudiciary, and the media - shrink and wither. Often, this populist worship results in an authoritarian regime that gradually,
almost imperceptibly replaces consensus politics. The Beloved Leader keeps paying lip service to democracy and functioning institutions, but effectively, he contemptuously ignores
them. He purges the civil service, staffing it with cronies and relatives, and he treats the opposition as traitors and enemies of
the state. 3. Denial of Reality From the Caucasus, through Central Asia, to the Balkans and Africa, unable to face the dismal
condition of their countries, people choose to simply deny it. Hype and spin and public relations replace real action and substantive reforms.
The language itself is subverted: corruption is redefined by the powers that be to exclude blatant nepotism; a mere change of ownership
hailed as a revolutionizing foreign investment; promises and plans presented as facts {faits accompli); statistical methodology altered to produce favorable results. Thus,
reality is done away with and replaced with fantasy. 4. Aggressive Assertiveness Rather than accept the fact that the nation s low
self-esteem and lack of self-confidence are outcomes of its failures, the leadership reverses cause and effects: the country s repeated failures are
now, officially, a RESULT of people s wavering self-esteem and self-confidence. People who doubt the leadership s claims and doctored data "don
t believe in the future of the nation, don t believe that (insert the name of the country} can (succeed}." Dissidents
