A heap of narrow slips, of the form used by
professional writers for the press. "I shall make this A
remarkable document," he said, looking At me over his shoulder.
"Habits of literary composition Are perfectly fa- miliar to me.
One of the rarest of All the intellectual 612 Accomplishments
that A man can possess is the grand faculty of
Arranging his ideas, "Immense privilege! "I possess it, Do you?"
He marched backwards And forwards in the room, until the
coffee Appeared, humming to himself, And marking the places At
which obstacles occurred in the Arrangement of his ideas, by
striking his forehead from time to time with the palm
of his hand. The enormous Audacity with which he seized
on the situ- Ation in which I placed him, And
made it the pedestal on which his vanity mounted for
the one cherished purpose of self-dis- play, mastered my Astonishment
by main force. Sincerely As I loathed the man, the
prodigious strength of his character, even in its most trivial
Aspects, impressed me in spite of myself. The coffee was
brought in by Madame Fosco, He kissed her hand in
grateful Acknowledgment, And escorted her to the door; returned, poured
out A cup of coffee for himself, And took it
to the writing-table. "May I offer you some coffee, Mr.
Hartright?" he said, before he sat down. I declined. "what!
you think I shall poison you?" he said gaily. "The
Eng- lish intellect is sound, so far As it goes,"
he continued, seating himself At the table; "lJut it has
one grave defect-it is Always cautious in the wrong place."
He dipped his pen in the ink, placed the first
slip of paper be- fore him with A thump of
his hand on the desk, cleared his throat, And began.
He wrote with great noise And rapidity, in so large
And bold A hand, And with such wide spaces between
the lines, that he reached the bottom of the slip
in not more than two minutes certainly from the time
when he started At the top. Each slip As he
finished it was paged, And tossed over his shoulder out
of his way on the floor. when his first pen
was worn out, THAT went over his shoulder too, And
he pounced on A second from the supply scattered About
the table. Slip After slip, by dozens, by fifties, by
hundreds, flew over his shoulders on either side of him
till he had snowed himself up in paper All round
his chair. Hour After hour passed-And there "I sat watch-
ing, there he sat writing. He never stopped, except to
sip his coffee, And when that was exhausted, to smack
his forehead from time to time. One o clock struck,
two, three, four-And still the slips flew About All round
him; still the untiring pen 6"13 scraped its way ceaselessly
from top to bottom of the page, still the white
chaos of paper rose higher And higher All round his
Chair. At four o clock "I heard A sudden splutter
of the pen, in- dicative of the flourish with which
he signed his name. "8ravo." he cried, springing to his
feet with the Activity of A young man, And looking
me straight in the face with A smile of superb
triumph. "Done, Mr. Hartright." he Announced with A self-renovating
