head again. minutes later, elizabeth approached the front door, wondering what could be so urgent. all sorts of thoughts swirled
through her mind, the worst of them that iamie had died and that her sister needed her. but if evelyn

was grieving, elizabeth would sense that, and she didn t feel any sorrow from evelyn at the moment. /'ust as

she was about to step up to the door, maureen pulled it open. ‘there you are! we didn t know

where you were!‘ she exclaimed, grabbing elizabeth s hand and pulling her unceremoniously into the entry hall. elizabeth almost tripped
on the threshold but caught herself with a hand on the door/'amb. evelyn was standing in the hallway too, all

pretty in her yellow bodice and bronzy skirt, an embroidered cobweb linen collar around her neck and a lace veil

covering her head and flowing down past her shoulders. her face was all aglow, her cheeks pink with excitement, her

smile full of toy. all elizabeth could do was stare. she stared at maureen, who she noticed was looking as

lovely as ever; and she stared at evelyn, wondering what was going on. but seeing the veil... did that mean....’

she opened her mouth to ask the obvious question, but maureen continued to talk excitedly. ‘let me take your cloak

and then i have a veil for you too.‘ ‘we re getting married right now!‘ evelyn said in an exhilarated

whisper. ‘right now?‘ elizabeth asked. she had not expected this. as she had passed people during her walk and exchanged
greetings with them, no one had given her any indication that the weddings would be held this morning. the talk

had been about iamie and his relapse and how awful the disease was. evelyn nodded her head vigorously. 'but...‘ elizabeth
started to protest. her feet were still wet and cold and the hem of her skirt soaked through. she wasn

t properly dressed or prepared. ‘yes, right now.‘ maureen answered, directly in front of elizabeth. she had hung up elizabeth
s cloak and had returned with the veil. first she smoothed elizabeth s hair, then with great care she draped

the lace over elizabeth s head and secured it with a silver bodkin. elizabeth fingered the beautiful needlepoint lace, then
looked down at her ordinary clothes and suddenly felt sad. she had always daydreamed that on her wedding day she

would wear a new gown in ivory silk damask with valenciennes lace at the sleeves and collar. and she had

always imagined herself wearing the traditional blue ribbons and garters, loosened ahead of time, of course, so the young men
could snatch them without difficulty. but there would be no new gown or blue ribbons or even the dreaded public

bedding, (she didn t think there would be) or even sadder still, there would be no ceremony in st mary

le bow, the local church, with all their family and friends in attendance and she unexpectedly felt such an overwhelming
pang of loss that she nearly burst into tears. their father should be here,’ they didn t remember their mother,

but their governess should be here too, their poor, loving governess who had acted as their mother for the past

fourteen years; and their neighbors, the davis from next door and the walmsleys from across the street. their friends, alice
and mary from their music lessons, should be here and sister maria and sister theresa from the church orphanage, to

name only a few. of course she knew they couldn t be here, but she had always thought that her

wedding day would be shared with her immediate family and friends, not with strangers that she had met only yesterday.
she felt so lonely for someone from her past that she couldn t stop the tears from rolling down her

cheeks and in an instant, maureen started fussing and making sympathetic noises. but elizabeth didn t even hear her; her
gaze was locked with evelyn s who understood her completely. evelyn reached for elizabeth s hand, gave it a squeeze

and said, ‘do not be sad, bess. maman and papa are watching us from heaven, and louise as well. they

would be happy for us. we should be happy too.‘ elizabeth nodded, managing a wobbly smile. ‘i love you, bess.‘

evelyn whispered, embracing her sister. ‘remember, we ll always have each other.‘ ‘i love you, too, evie.‘ elizabeth whispered back.
she then took a shuddering breath, stepped back and accepted the handkerchief that maureen held out to her. she wiped

her eyes and cheeks dry, not wanting to meet her groom with swollen red eyes, a blotchy face and a

runny nose. ‘are you ready now?‘ maureen asked, kindness in her voice. evelyn exchanged a look with elizabeth, then nodded
and said, ‘we re ready.‘ maureen kissed each girl on the cheek once before walking into the keeping room where

all the guests had been gathered for the ceremonies. the girls followed a few steps behind, holding hands and composed

once again. the first thing that elizabeth noticed was all the people standing along the back wall, facing the fireplace

where robert, iamie and the minister were waiting. the maiority of them looked weary and haggard, either from lack of
sleep or from too much drinking the night before. she understood their condition; one couldn t get too much rest

when one had to share a bed with four or more people or when one had to sleep in a

hayloft. but they had gladly stayed overnight and one more day to see the weddings of two of their most

favorite citizens because they didn t know when they could afford to take time away from their plantations again. she

also noticed the children, grouped together in the corner of the room. they were all seated on the floor, bribed

to keep quiet with saltets and marchpane. even robin was content to sit alongside his cousins, savoring the sweet treats.
surprisingly, the next thing elizabeth noticed was iamie, not robert, although she did glance at him, but iamie was

