dead. but this is the dungeon where pirithoos lay to be scratched by me during a hundred years.’ now there

is nothing more terrible than such an impudent female as this. wherefore, having prepared a wile, not to enrage her,

but to delude her, by seeming to be overcome by piety and terror, then, i let my mouth gape like

a fool s while i repeated after her: 'a hundred years!‘ but she began to be garrulous. but i watched

for an opportunity of entangling her in her talk. and thus she chattered: ‘yea, here indeed lay pirithoos, son of

ixion, during a hundred years. for king hades would not give him to sweet death, so black was his crime.

but, every night, we sisters three tormented his body as though he were dead, using fiery tortures and nail-tearings, until

the decree came that his shade should repose in peace, being purged. but thou, also, o much-enduring odysseys, will lie

here, chained, purging thy presumptuous prepotence: but, not till after thy death, may we deal with thee according to thy
doom, whatever that may be.' and, having thus enlightened me, the very excessive fury suddenly left me, with extempore shrieks
and a flapping of her skinny wings, thereafter, i forget how some days passed: for a prisoner may not reckon

the flight of time in the region of tartaros, excepting by marking the ebb and flow of the fiery tides

of pyriphthlegethon. moreover, i was occupied in my mind, reviewing all my store of magic wisdom and contriving many wiles.
and, by chance, one day, i became aware that i was hearing a song; and the sound of it seemed

to come from very far away, sweetly, like the voice of a cicada drunk on dewdrops, which, in the woods,

sitting on a tree, sends forth a delicate lily-like voice. now, in the house of shady hades {most righteous of

gods}, this is the Condition of mortals when they are dead. for their nerves have no longer flesh and bones:

but the strong force of burning fire subdues them, when first the mind leaves the white bones; and the soul,

gibbeting like a dream, flits and flutters away. wherefore, the souls of the dead cannot sing, nor do they attempt

it, being occupied in shrieking with agony and fear. for which cause, i was vastly amazed to hear so very

sweet a song, so grave, so quiet in tone.’ and, having summoned all my strength, despite the weighty manacles which

trammelled me, i leaped up to the high barred window which looked out into the gloom. but i saw little

more than that my dungeon was a pit in a rocky height: for it happened to be the hour of

slack tide, when the flames of pyriphthlegethon die down for a while. and the wonderful song came more clearly from

below, thrilling the darkness of black night. but, when, anon, the voice was silent, i wedged myself {as best i

could} into the narrow alcove of the window, waiting for the ebb of the tide, when i might see more

plainly in the light of the increscent flames, and, when the flickering gleam of the fires leaped up, i saw

that my pit was a cell in a watch-tower perched high above the walls of the house of blameless hades,

but there was a great gulph fixed below, and bleak meadows beyond, swept by mists and winds of hell. and,

while i gazed, the lily-like Voice began again to ring, maidenlike, very solemn, and of entrancing sweetness, but i, listening,
heard it; and the heart in my dear breast thrilled strangely: for it seemed as though memory (that divine one

of goddesses} was opening yet once more certain chambers in my mind, unknown, or unremembered; and i was aware of
treasures stored therein, whose very existence i had forgotten. but the simple song went sadly on, as though the singer

sat in patience waiting, singing only iust to pass the time, but always with hope, very faint indeed but never-failing,
ever-enduring, in the depth of her maiden breast. and thus she sang: waiting, till, on his breast, she bursts in

full flower. and the strange sweet dancing rhythm made my pulses bound; and my breath came quickly in accord. for

it was like a sudden- blazing thunderbolt illuminating the recesses of my mind; and i remembered the object of my

quest, to wit, golden helen, who, when i was not much more than a boy, had watched me faring girded

high through the ford of eyrotas near windy laltedaimon" golden helen, whom her star-crowned brothers (kastor the tamer of horses
and polydeykes the pugilist) had rescued from the blameless hero theseys carrying her away when she was a tender girl,--golden
helen, whom king tyndareys had given in so-called marriage to loud-shouting impotent old sandy-haired menelaos, blameless, and blubber-lipped,--golden helen, whom
woman-mad paris had reft from her farcical husband,--golden helen, who had come again to me in the land of khem,

long ages since, pure as snow or fire, and always mine alone,--golden helen, whom black fate had reft from me,

when i died that time by the sacred river of egypt, being wounded to death by blameless kirke s son

and mine, unknowing telegonos. but now, indeed, i knew of a truth that golden helen was that very treasure of

hades which i had come to win: for, by favour of queen persephone, she was safe in the netherworld, and

only there, for in the netherworld there are no men capable of worrying a lady, but merely shades of men,

who are quite negligible; and, there, she (being immortal} could live faithful to me and not altogether without certain amenities.
wherefore, with a great shout, i called her by name. and she made answer, half-amazed and half-afraid, saying: ‘who calleth

me with the voice of one long dead?’ to whom i replied: 'i am odysseys, grandson of hermes, victor over

all sorts of people,’ and i am come here for thee, o high-born long-robed helen whom i love.‘ thus

