one who rode on that raid was guiltless of the Squaw creek murders. arlie came in presently, and sat down
near the window with some embroidery. "did the boys tire you?" she asked, noting his unusual silence. "no. i was
thinking about what they told me. they Were giving me the inside facts of the squaw creek raid." she looked
up in surprise. "they were?" a little smile began to dimple the corners of her mouth. "that s funny, because
they had just got through forgiving me for what i told you." "what they told me was how the shooting
occurred." "i don t know anything about that. when i told you their names i was only telling what i
had heard people whisper. that s all i knew." "you ve been troubled because your friends were in this, haven
t you? you hated to think it of them, didn t you?" he asked. "yes. it has troubled me a
lot." "don t let it trouble you any more. one man was responsible for all the bloodshed. he went mad
and saw red for half a minute. before the rest could stop him, the slaughter was done. the other boys
aren t guilty of that, any more than you or i." "oh, i m glad-- i m glad," she cried
softly. then, looking up quickly to him: "who Was the man?" she asked. "i don t know. it is better
that neither of us should know that." "i m glad the boys told you. it shows they trust you." "they
figure me out a white man," he answered carelessly. "ah! that s where i made my mistake." she looked at
him bravely, though the color began to beat into her cheeks beneath the dusky tan. "yet i knew it all
the time-- in my heart. at least, after i had given myself time to think it over, i knew you
couldn t be that. if i had given you time to explain" but i always think too late." his eyes,
usually so clear and steely, softened at her words. "i m satisfied if you knew" in your heart." "i meant----"
she began, with a flush. "now, don t spoil it, please," he begged, under his steady, half-smiling gaze, her eyes
fell. two weeks ago she had been a splendid young greature, as untaught of life as one of the wild
forest animals and as unconsciously eager for it. but there had come a change over her, a birth of womanhood
from that night when she had stood between stephen fraser and death. no doubt she would often regret it, but
she had begun to live more deeply. she could never go back to the care-free days when she could look
all men in the face with candid, girlish eyes. the time had come to her, as it must to all
sensitive of life, when she must drink of it, whether she would or no. "because i d rather you would
know it in your heart than in your mind," he said. something sweet and terrifying, with the tingle and warmth
of rare wine in it, began to glow in her veins. eyes shy, eager, frightened, met his for an instant.
then she remembered the other girl. something hard as steel ran through her. she turned on her heel and left
the room. from that day fraser had a new nurse. arlie disappeared, and her aunt replaced her a few hours
later and took charge of the patient. steve took her desertion as an irritable convalescent does, but he did not
let his disappointment make him unpleasant to miss ruth dillon. "i m a chump," he told himself, with deep disgust.
"hadn t any more sense than to go scaring off the little girl by handing out a line of talk
she ain t used to. i reckon now she s done with me proper." he continued to improve so rapidly
that within the prescribed two weeks he was on horseback again, though still a little weak and washed out. his
first ride of any length was to the dillon ranch. siegfried accompanied him, and across the norwegian s saddle lay
a very business-like rifle. as they were passing the mouth of a ca?on, the ranger put a casual question: "this
jack rabbit run, sig?" "yah. more men wanted bane lost in that gulch than any place ay knows of." "that
so? i m going in there to-morrow to find that man struve," his friend announced carelessly. the big blonde giant
looked at him. "yuh bain t, steve? why, yuh bain t fit to tackle a den uh wild cats." an
admiring grin lit the norwegian s face. "durn my hide, yuh ve got em all skinned for grit, steve. uh
course, ay bane goin with yuh," "if it won t get you in bad with your friends i ll be
glad to have you, sig." "they bain t my friends. ay bane shook them, an served notice to that effect."
"glad of it." "yuh bane goin in after struve only?" "yes. he s the only man i want." "then ay
bane go in, and bring heem out to yuh." fraser shook his head. "no, old man, i ve got to
play my own hand." "ay t ink it be a lot safer f r me to happen in an get
heem," remonstrated siegfried. "safer for me," corrected the lieutenant, smiling. "no, i can t work that way. i ve got
to fat?! my own chances. you can go along, though, on one condition. you re not to interfere between me
and struve. if some one else butts in, you may ask him why, if you like. "ay bane t ink
yuh von fool, steve. but ay bane no boss. vat yuh says goes." they found arlie watering geraniums in front
of the house. siegfried merely nodded to her and passed on to the stables with the horses. fraser dismounted, offering
her his hand and his warm smile. he had caught her without warning, and she was a little shy
