Cautious british mind grew. no money, no french, no obiective, iust a great human desire to be useful in her

own small way - this was a new type to him. what a sporting chance this frail bit of a

girl was taking.’ and he noticed now something that had escaped him before - a dauntlessness, a courage of the

spirit rather than of the body, that was in the very poise of her head. ‘i m not afraid about

the language,‘ she was saying. ‘i have a phrase book. and a hungry man, maybe sick or wounded, can understand

a bowl of soup in any language, i should think. and i can cook!‘ it was a perplexed and thoughtful

mr. travers who sipped his scotch-and-soda in the smoking room before retiring, lie took the problem to bed with him
and woke up in the night saying: ‘twenty pounds! good god!‘ in the morning they left the ship. he found

sara lee among the k s, Waiting to have her passport examined, and asked her where she was stopping in

london. she had read somewhere of claridge s - in a novel probably, ‘i shouldn t advise claridge 5,‘ he

said, reflecting rather grimly on the charges of that very exclusive hotel. ‘suppose you let me make a suggestion.‘ so
he wrote out the name of a fine old english house on trafalgar square, where she could stay until she

went to france. there would be the matter of a passport to cross the channel. it might take a day

or two. perhaps he could help her. he would give himself the pleasure of calling on her very soon, sara

lee got on the train and rode up to london. she said to herself over and over: ‘this is england,

i am really in england.‘ but it did not remove the sense of unreality. even the english grass, bright green

in midwinter, only added to the sense of unreality. she tried, sitting in the strange train with its small compartments,
to think of harvey. she looked at her ring and tried to recall some of the tender things he had

said to her. but harvey eluded her. she could not hear his voice. and when she tried to see him

it was harvey of the wide face and the angry eyes of the last days that she saw. morley s

comforted her. the man at the door had been there for forty years, and was beyond surprise. he had her

story in twenty-four hours, and in forty-eight he was her slave. the elderly chambermaid mothered her, and failed to report
that sara lee was doing a small washing in her room and had pasted handkerchiefs over the ancient walnut of

her wardrobe. ‘going over, are you?‘ she said. ‘dear me, what courage you ve got, miss! they tell me things

is horrible over there.‘ ‘that s why i m going,‘ replied sara lee, and insisted on helping to make up

the bed. ‘it s easier when two do it,‘ she said casually. mr. travers put in a fretful twenty-four hours

before he came to see her. he lunched at brooks , and astounded an elderly member of the house by

putting her problem to him. ‘a young girl!‘ exclaimed the m. p. ‘why, deuce take it, it s no place

for a young girl.‘ ‘an american,‘ explained mr. travers uncomfortably, ‘ she s perfectly able to look after herself,‘ ‘probably
a correspondent in disguise. they ll go to any lengths.‘ ‘she s not a correspondent.‘ ‘let her stay in boulogne.

there s work there in the hospitals.‘ ‘she s not a nurse. she s a - well, she s a

cook. or so she says.‘ the m. p. stared at mr. travers, and mr. travers stared back defiantly. ‘what in

the name of god is she going to cook?‘ ‘soup,’ said mr. travers in a voice of suppressed irritation. ‘she

s got a little money, and she wants to establish a soup kitchen behind the belgian trenches on a line

of Communication. i suppose,‘ he continued angrily, ‘even you will admit that the belgian army needs all the soup it
can get.‘ ‘i don t approve of women near the lines.‘ ‘neither do i. but i m exceedingly glad that

a few of them have the courage to go there.‘ ‘what s she going to make soup out of?‘ ‘i

m not a cooking expert. but i know her and i fancy she ll manage,‘ it ended by the m,

p. agreeing to use his influence with the war office to get sara lee to france. he was very unwilling.

the spy question was looming large those days. even the red cross had unwittingly spread its protection over more than
one german agent. the lines were being drawn in. ‘i may possibly get her to france. i don t know,

of course,‘ he said in that ungracious tone in which an englishman often grants a favor which he will go

to any amount of trouble to do. ‘after that it s up to her.‘ mr. travers reflected rather grimly that

after that it was apparently up to him. sara lee sat in her room at morley s hotel and looked

out at the life of london - policemen with chin straps; schoolboys in high silk hats and eton suits, the

hats generally in disreputable condition.‘ clerks dressed as men at home dressed for easter sunday church: and men in uniforms.

only a fair sprinkling of these last, in those early days. on the first afternoon there was a military funeral.
a regiment of Scots, in hills, came swinging down from the church of st, martin in the fields, tall and
wonderful men, grave and very sad. behind them, on a gun carriage, was the body of their officer, with the
british flag over the casket and his sword and cap on the top. sara lee cried bitterly. it was not

until they had gone that she remembered that harvey had always called the scots men in women s petticoats.

