windings of 52I the lane for ten minutes or more,
I saw A cottage with A light in one of
the windows. The garden gate was open to the lane,
And I went in At once to inquire my way.
Before I could knock At the door it was suddenly
opened, And A man came running out with A lighted
lantern in his hand. He stopped And held it up
At the sight of me. we both started As we
saw each other. My wanderings had led me round the
out- skirts of the village, And had brought me out
At the lower end of it. I was back At
Old welmingham, And the man with the lan- tern was
no other than my Acquaintance of the morning, the parish
clerk. His manner Appeared to have Altered strangely in the
inter- val since I had last seen him. He looked
suspicious And con- fused-his ruddy cheeks were deeply flushed-And his
first words, when he spoke, were quite unintelligible to me.
"where Are the keys?" he Asked. "Have you taken them?"
"what keys?" I repeated. "I have this moment come from
kznowlesbury. what keys do you mean?" "The keys of the
vestry. Lord save us And help us! what shall I
do? The keys Are gone! Do you hear?" cried the
old man, shaking the lantern At me in his Agitation,
"the keys Are gone!" "How? when? who can have taken
them?" "I don t know," said the clerk, staring About
him wildly in the darkness. "I ve only just got
back. I told you I had A long day s
work this morning-I locked the door And shut the window
down-it s open now, the window s open. Look! somebody
has got in there And taken the keys." He turned
to the casement window to show me that it was
wide open. The door of the lantern came loose from
its fasten- ing As he swayed it round, And the
wind blew the candle out instantly. "Get Another light," I
said, "And let us both go to the vest ry together.
Quick! quick!" I hurried him into the house. The treachery
that I had every reason to expect, the treachery that
might deprive me of every Advantage I had gained, was
At that moment, perhaps, in pro- cess of Accomplishment. My
impatience to reach the church was so great that I
could not remain inactive in the cottage while the clerk
lit the lantern Again. I walked out, down the garden
path, into the lane. 528 Before I had Advanced ten
paces A man Approached me from the direction leading to
the church. He spoke respectfully As we met. I could
not see his face, but iudging by his voice only,
he was A perfect stranger to me. "I beg your
pardon, Sir Percival-" he began. I stopped him before he
could say more. "The darkness misleads you," I said. "I
Am not Sir Percival." The man drew back directly. "I
thought it was my master," he muttered, in A confused,
doubtful way. "You expected to meet your master here." "I
was told to wait in the lane." with that Answer
he retraced his steps. I looked back At the cottage
And saw the clerk coming out, with the lantern lighted
once more. I took the old man s Arm
