showing all the cards in his hand. he had something mafor, and unexpected, in the pipeline. which brought forth the
next insight." matsuo noda didn t hire me merely because he wanted some innocent-seeming outsider to do his bidding in
the futures market." any number of players in this town could have handled that action as well or better, no,
he d sucked me into his operation for some entirely different purpose, at the moment known only to him. but
what? more to the point, why? welcome to friday, and my rather disturbed life. want to know what really disturbed
me the most? seeing my new employer on cnn s prime news, standing there right next to the emperor of
iapan. seemed as though i wasn t the only one now under noda s spell. all of a sudden my
mild-mannered client had become a world-class iapanese mover and shaker. and that made me very nervous. needing a little perspective,
i decided to invite down dr. william /". henderson, respected thinker and booze hound. as it happened, he had a
little time to kill that friday before his "late date" with some advertising exec who was flying in from an
assignment on the coast. since three weeks had gone by since our talk up at martell s, it seemed like
a good occasion to get together and compare notes. true to his word, he had formally resigned from the president
s council of economic advisers, though he d reluctantly agreed to serve as a forecasting consultant for wharton econometrics. he
d also caused some unsettling rumors in the world markets by putting on some very heavy "straddles" in december gold
futures and oil. he called it insurance, predicting he d be covered no matter what happened. looked at another way,
though, bill henderson was quietly shifting out of paper money and into commodities. and when hender-son started hedging, you knew
the weather forecast was unsettled to stormy. it turned out he d also uncovered a few stray elements of what
might well be a much bigger game. nothing solid at that point, but enough to stir him up. "know who
runs that outfit you ve taken on as a client?" he leaned back in one of the leather chairs in
the upstairs parlor, new pair of gucci s glistening, and sampled his third drink. "guy by the name of matsuo
noda," "henderson, who do you think i was talking to up at sotheby s the other night?" "you check your
wallet afterward? we re talking heavy guns, my friend." he snubbed out what must have been his tenth dunhill in
the last hour. "you didn t tell me he was the honcho behind all this." "you didn t ask. know
anything about him?" "not till last week. i started to do a little checking and first thing i know i
m stumbling across his name everywhere i look." he studied the glass in his hand. "tell you something about this
noda. the man drops a quarter, you let him pick it up himself. he ll nail you where the sun
don t shine. definitely a bad news mother." ".Vou mean that business with the sword?" "nah, what in hell do
i know about swords? that s your toy box. i m talking about the real world, friend. turns out matsuo
noda was the prime mover in one of the biggest takeover plays of the century." "what takeover? they don t
screw around with corporate takeovers in iapan." "they don t take each other over, they take other businesses over. washington
may think that war back in the forties is over, but somebody neglected to pass the word to miti. seems
they ve got the idea it was just the opening skirmish-the only folks who surrendered were the army and navy."
henderson grew ominously serious for a change. "question is, where s this thing headed? is the idea of turning our
industrial base into a packaging operation for imports some kind of conspiracy, or is it just nature takin its course?"
conspiracy? that wasn t a word henderson threw around lightly. in fact, he tended to scoff at conspiracy theories, claiming
they were a substitute for hardheaded analysis. i agreed. so what was he driving at? i pressed him. he paused
to light a cigarette. "i bring up this unsavory possibility because i m beginning to detect a little operation code-named
eat an industry. " "henderson, that s my game. i pitch in to help the little fish fend off the
big ones." "no offense, friend, but you probably couldn t even get into the ball park where noda and his
boys are playing. we re talking the very big leagues here." "now hold on a second. noda s not interested
in companies. he s /"ust shooting a little craps. from what i ve seen so far, the guy seems to
be completely on the up-and-up. in fact, looked at from the long view, you might even say he s putting
money into this country, never mind it s just the wall street casino." "sure he is. it s like he
first kicks the shit out of you, then hands you a coke so s you ll feel refreshed." "what in
hell are you talking about?" "well, let s back up a notch. since i don t want to bad-mouth your
new client, why don t you let me give you what i ll call a purely hypothetical case." he sipped
at his scotch. "let s suppose you were a iapanese guy, like matsuo noda for instance, and you wanted to
take over some strategic american industry and ship it to iapan. how d you go about it?" "well . .
." "have a drink, counselor." he Plunged forward. "and let me tell you a little fairy tale. about how matsuo
noda ate the american semiconductor industry." "noda?" "it was miti actually. but noda was running the ministry when they did
it, and he was the guy who set up the play." "noda ran miti?" this was news to me.
