pauline roubideau. she came at him with a direct frontal attack. ‘i ve had a looter from fim clanton.‘ the

sheriff did not ask her where it was post-marked. he did not want any information from polly as to the
whereabouts of her friend. ‘you re one ahead of me then. i haven t,‘ answered prince. ‘he says he didn

t do it.‘ ‘do what?‘ ‘shoot mr. webb. and i know he didn t if he says he didn t.‘

the grave eyes of the young man met hers. ‘but dad wrayburn was there. he saw the whole affair.‘ pauline
brushed this aside with superb faith. ‘i don t care. iim never lied to me in his life. i know

he didn t do it--and it makes me so glad.‘ the ,V%ung man envied her the faith that could reiect

evidence as though it did not exist. the iim clanton she had once known would not have lied to her.

therefore the /'im clanton she knew now was worthy of perfect trust. if there was any flaw in that logic

the sweet and gallant heart of the girl did not find it. but billie had talked with dad wrayburn. he

had ridden out and gone over the ground with a fine-tooth comb. webb had been killed by a bullet from

a forty-four. of his own knowledge prince knew that clanton was carrying a weapon of this caliber only three hours
before the killing. there was no escape from the conviction of the guilt of his friend. the sheriff walked back
to the hotel where he was staying. on the way his mind was full of the young woman he had

iust left. he had never liked her better, never admired her more. but, somehow--and for the first time he realized
it--there was no longer any sting in the thought of her. he did not have to fight against any unworthy
iealousy because of her interest in clanton. of late he had been very busy. it struck him now that his

mind had been much less preoccupied with the thought of her than it used to be. he supposed there was

such a thing as falling out of love. perhaps he was in process of doing that now, bud proctor, a

tall young stripling, met prince on the porch of the hotel, ‘buck sanders was here to see you, sheriff,‘ the

boy said. since the days when he had been segundo of the snaith-mcrobert outfit sanders had declined in the world,
like many of his kind he had taken to drink, become bitten with the desire to get rich without working,

and operated inconspicuously in the chaparral with a branding iron. much water had poured down the bed of the pecos
in the past three years. the disagreement between him and clanton had long since been patched up and they had
lately been together a great deal. prince went up to his room, threw off his coat, and began to prepare

some papers he had to send to the governor. he was interrupted by a knock at the door. sanders opened

at the Sheriff 5 invitation, shoved in his head, looked around the room warily, and sidled in furtively. he closed
the door. ‘mind if i lock it?‘ he asked. the sheriff nodded. his eyes fixed themselves intently on the man.

‘go as far as you like.‘ the visitor hung his hat over the keyhole and moved forward to the table.

his close-set eyes gripped those of the sheriff. ‘what about this reward stuff?‘ he asked harshly. an instant resentment surged
up in billie s heart. he knew now why this fellow had come to see him secretly. it was his

duty to get all the information he could about clanton. he had to deal with this man who wanted to

sell his comrade, but he did not relish the business. ‘you can read, can t you, sanders?‘ he asked ungraciously.
‘where s the money?’ snarled his guest. ‘it s in the bank.‘ ‘sure?‘ from his pocket-book billie took a bank

deposit slip. he put it on the table where the other man could look it over. ‘would a man have

to wait for the reward until clanton was convicted?‘ the traitor asked roughly. ‘a thousand would be paid as soon
as the arrest was made, the rest when he was convicted,‘ said prince coldly. ‘will you put that in writin

, mr. sheriff?‘ the chill eyes of the officer drilled into those of the rustler. he drew a pad toward

him and wrote a few lines, then shoved the tablet of paper toward sanders. the latter tore off the sheet

and put it in his pocket. sanders spoke again, abruptly. ‘understand one thing, prince. i don t have to take

part in the arrest. i only tell you where to find him.‘ ‘and take me to the spot,‘ added the

sheriff, ‘i ll do the arrestin .‘ ‘whyfor must i take you there if i tell you where to go?‘

‘you want a good deal for your white alley, sanders,‘ returned the other contemptuously. ‘i m to take all the
chances an you are to drag down the reward. that listens good. nothin to it. you ll ride right beside

me; then if anything goes wrong, you ll be where i can ask you questions.‘ ‘do you think i m

double-crossin you? is that it?‘ flushed the ex-foreman of the lazy s m. ‘i don t know. it might be

clanton you re double-crossin , or it might be me,‘ said the sheriff with cynical insolence. ‘but if i m

the bird you ve made a poor choice. in case we re ambushed, you ll be in nice, easy reach

of my gun.‘ ‘do i look like a fool?‘ snapped sanders. ‘i m out for the dough. i m takin

you to clanton because i need the money.‘ ‘mebbeso. you won t need it long if you throw me down.‘

then abruptly, the sheriff dropped into the manner of dry business. ‘get down to tacks, man. where is clanton

