believe he is here to get the man i told you of. mebbe that ain t all.‘ ‘what more?‘ she

scoffed. ‘this fellow is the best range detective in the country. my notion is he s spying around about that
squaw creek raid.‘ under the dusky skin she flushed angrily. ‘my notion is you re daffy, /"ed. talk sense, and

i ll listen to you. you haven t a grain of proof.‘ ‘i may get some yet,‘ he told her

sulkily. she laughed her disbelief. ‘when you do, let me know,‘ and with that she gave her pony the signal

to more forward. nevertheless, she met the ranger at the foot of the little hill with distinct coldness. when he
came up to shake hands, she was too busy dismounting to notice. ‘your heart must be a good deal better.

i suppose lost valley agrees with you.‘ she had swung down on the other side of the horse, and her

glance at him across the saddle seat was like a rapier thrust. he was aware at once of being in

disgrace with her, and it chafed him that he had no adequate answer to her implied charge. ‘my heart s

all right,‘ he said a little gruffly. ‘yes, it seems to be, lieutenant,‘ she trailed the reins and turned away

at once to find her father. the girl was disappointed in him. he had, in effect, lied to her. that

was bad enough; but she felt that his lie had concealed something, how much she scarce dared say. her tangled
thoughts were in chaos. one moment she was ready to believe the worst; the next, it was impossible to conceive
such a man so vile a spy as to reward hospitality with treachery. yet she remembered now that it had

been while she was telling of the fate of the traitor burke that she had driven him to his lie.

or had he not told it first when she pointed out lost valley at his feet? yes, it was at

that moment she had noticed his pallor. he had, at least, conscience enough to be ashamed of what he was

doing. but she recognized a wide margin of difference between the possibilities of his guilt. it was one thing to
come to the valley for an escaped murderer: it was quite another to use the hospitality of his host as

a means to betray the friends of that host. deep in her heart she could not find it possible to

convict him of the latter alternative. he was too much a man, too vitally dynamic. no; whatever else he was,
she felt sure he was not so hopelessly lost to decency. he had that electric spark of self-respect which may
coexist with many faults, but not with treachery. a bunch of young steers which had strayed from their range were
to be driven to the dillon ranch, and the boss of the rodeo appointed france and fraser to the task.

‘yo ll have company home, honey,‘ he told his daughter, ‘and yo ll be able to give the boys a

hand if they need it. these hill cattle are still some wild, though we ve been working them a week.

yo re a heap better cowboy than some that works more steady at the business.‘ briscoe nodded. ‘you bet! i

ain t forgot that day arlie rode big timber with me two years ago. she wasn t sixteen then, but

she herded them hill steers like they belonged to a milk bunch.‘ he spoke his compliment patly enough, but somehow
the girl had an impression that he was thinking of something else. she was right, for as he helped gather

the drive his mind was busy with a problem. presently he dismounted to tighten a cinch, and made a signal

to a young fellow known as slim leroy. the latter was a new and tender recruit to fed s band

of miscreants. he drew up beside his leader and examined one of the fore hoofs of his pony. ‘slim, i

m going to have dillon send you for the mail to-day. when he tells you, that s the first you

know about it. understand? you ll have to take the hill cut to iack rabbit run on your way in.

at the cabin back of the aspens, inquire for a man that calls himself johnson. if he s there, give

him this message: this afternoon from bald knob. remember.’ iust those words, and nothing more. if he isn t there,
forget the message. you ll know the man you want because he is shy his trigger finger and has a

ragged scar across his right cheek. make no mistake about this, slim.‘ ‘sure i won t.‘ briscoe, having finished cinching,
swung to his saddle and rode up to say good-by to arlie. ‘hope you ll have no trouble with this

bunch. if you push right along you d ought to get home by night,‘ he told her. arlie agreed carelessly.

'i don t expect any trouble with them. so-long, ied.‘ it would not have been her choice to ride home

with the lieutenant of rangers, but since her father had made the appointment publicly she did not care to make
obiection. yet she took care to let fraser see that he was in her black books. the men rode toward

the rear of the herd, one on each side, and arlie fell in beside her old playmate, dick. she laughed

and talked with him about a hundred things in which steve could have had no part, even if he had

been close enough to catch more than one word out of twenty. not once did she even look his way.

quite plainly she had taken pains to forget his existence. ‘it was briscoe s turn the other day,‘ mused the

texan. ‘it s mine now. i wonder when it will be dick s to get put out in the cold!‘

nevertheless, though he tried to act the philosopher, it cut him that the high-spirited girl had condemned him. he

