she said. ‘was it the same dream as yesterday?‘ ‘i don t remember.‘ she wouldn t meet his gaze, so

she probably did remember, but paddington wasn t going to press her. instead, he shuffled over and put an arm

around her, ‘you re safe now,‘ he said. lisa settled against him, heart hammering. ‘that s quite a blood-pumper you

ve got there,‘ he said, for something to say. ‘is that a euphemism?‘ paddington couldn t return her widening smile.

in his mind, she snapped at him again. ‘iust an observation,‘ he said. lisa closed her eyes. her heart kept

crashing against paddington s chest; its pace slowed but it thumped as hard as ever. the phone pierced his peace.

with deep regret, paddington slid a hand off lisa and onto the bedside phone. ‘yeah?‘ ‘missing person,‘ andrea said. ‘chief

conall thinks the southern station has better things to do with its time.‘ ‘mum, it s my weekend off,‘ paddington

said. ‘is she there?‘ ‘what does tha‘ ‘doesn t matter.‘ as soon as she d heard about the computer, andrea

s opinion of lisa had sunken from ‘tolerable‘ to ‘unacceptable‘ and she d moved from encouraging their relationship to sabotaging
it, ‘i 17: sure quentin can handle it,‘ she said. ‘no.‘ paddington sat up, eyes widening. sure, his mohure was

trying to get between him and lisa - and succeeding - but this was a crime. possibly. ‘he ll be

there in ten.‘ paddington placed the handset back in the cradle and sat up, aware that lisa had turned to

stare at the ceiling. ‘sorry,‘ he said. ‘i ll be back as soon as i can.‘ lisa didn t look

at him. it had been a week since paddington had so much as mentioned betsy s attack and the awkward

divide between them was as wide as ever. that left only one possible cause_._ ‘iim, were you ever going to

bring it up?‘ she asked. ...and there it was. she said it so calmly paddington thought he imagined it. ‘no,’

he admitted. ‘your mohure came to talk to me,‘ lisa said. ‘said you closed yourself off after i left.‘ explanations

formed in paddington s mind, all the reasons why he d become what he was, but they d sound ridiculous

out loud. ‘it s better this way,‘ he said at last. ‘it really meant that much to you?‘ paddington stared

out the window at the bright blue sky, stomach knotting. could he explain himself, even fifteen years later? was any

reason good enough? ‘then you should know that i didn t leave archi just because of you,‘ lisa said. mitigating

factors didn t matter; he was the primary cause. he drove her away. ‘why did you come back?‘ he asked.

lisa lay at ease, eyes closed. ‘why didn t you leave?‘ ‘nah. you ve seen me fumbling at the computer;

how would i fare out there?‘ he asked. ‘little people, little problems, maybe that s all i m good for.‘

paddington s brown eyes searched lisa s face for somewhere safe to land. they dodged enemy fire before being shot

down. there were flames. ‘all right, i m a coward,‘ paddington said. ‘is that what you re saying?‘ lisa smiled.

‘i m not saying anything.‘ ‘no, »V'§u re iust lying there, silently insinuating,‘ she sat forward until her lips were

an inch from his. ‘and i ll.._ insinuate all i want.‘ ‘no! no time for insinuations now. quentin s already

on his way.‘ paddington iumped out of bed, showered, and dressed in his black uniform. as he was starting breakfast,

lisa emerged, still in her night-slip and smoothing wild blonde hair. why had he said yes to working.’ why not

spend the day with lisa? what would it matter if he didn t find one missing person? there was a

knock at the door and, immediately, the sound of it opening. quentin rumbled along the passage, belt tingling. lisa made

no effort to cover herself up. ‘heya /'im__. lisa.‘ he tipped his helmet at her and dropped a folder on

the table, imbuing the act with distaste for everything the southern station was and did. paddington kissed lisa goodbye and
grabbed his helmet. as quentin drove them south, paddington peeled open the case report. ‘norman winslow. never heard of him.‘
‘lucky you.‘ ‘that bad?‘ ‘worse.‘ the streets became grimier, as though brooms didn t work so well the farther south

they “rent, or roofs were more difficult to repairing. the houses were new, too,‘ none more than eighty years old.

the south had never really recovered from some big fire a while back; it had iust limped along, only half

alive. they parked and approached winslow s workplace, a dull building that was, inside, one large room filled with ten

cheap desks. the floor undulated where the structure had been extended and the walls were three shades of dull orange.

seven people looked up when they entered. after a brief conversation with winslow s boss - a heavyset man who

hadn t seen winslow in a month, assumed that he was using his accumulated holiday time, and only reported winslow

missing so he could replace him - they spoke with the staff. none had seen him since monday the second

of april, twenty-six days ago, winslow s ridiculously-neat desk completely lacked a convenient note saying ‘starting one-month vacation tomorrow‘. still,
maybe that made this proper police work: someone was missing and paddington could be his only hope, a possibility highlighted
when quentin kissed the hand of the woman he was supposed to be questioning. ‘got anything?‘ paddington asked. ‘iust a

date on friday!‘ quentin whispered. ‘what about denise? and rose?‘ ‘i won t tell them if you don t,‘ he

said, wiggling his eyebrows. paddington would have lectured him on the merits of monogamy, but quentin didn t need relationship
advice, he was charismatic enough to get away with anything. hell, if paddington told denise about rose, quentin would probably
iust introduce them. and they d become best friends. ‘let s try his house,‘ paddington said. winslow s house

