fell off,‘ suggested the professor. ‘that would explain it. the esquimaux were traveling to this cave with us, and simply
brought us from where the ship had been blown, up to where the boys landed.‘ ‘i guess that must be

it,‘ admitted andy,‘ ‘but listen! some one is coming.‘ footsteps were heard approaching. in a few seconds dirola entered the
ice chamber. ‘i fix it!‘ she exclaimed. ‘you must all go way quick. the people want kill you, but me

save. listen. you climb up the slide me an boys come down. me bring sharp bones,‘ and she brought out

from under her iacket several sharp bone picks. ‘make um steps in ice; climb up. go in little cave, where

boys know. there man wait for you wid sled an dogs. he take you to airship. but hurry, hurry! people

be after you soon when find you gone. me keep um back long what i can, but not for very

long, so you go fast.‘ ‘we must lose no time,‘ said the professor. ‘this may be our last chance. how

can we thank you, dirola?‘ ‘never mind talk, go!‘ exclaimed the esquimaux queen. ‘must hurry!‘ the captives were anxious enough
to escape. led by dirola they went out into the main cavern. it was quite dark, as the sun had

moved around so it no longer shone in the opening, and the mysterious lights had died away. they were soon

at the bottom of the slope by means of which the boys and the helpers had fallen into the ice

cave. ‘now climb up!‘ dirola commanded. ‘me give people big feast cause i back again. they eat an no think

of you for long time, but they chase when they find out. hurry! hurry!‘ it was no easy task for

the prisoners to make their way up the icy slope. each one was given a pair of short sharp-pointed heavy

bones. with these in their hands, using them much as a seal does his tusks, they managed to scramble up

the slippery incline. soon they found themselves able to enter the cave the boys, bill, tom and dirola had made,
through the opening from which they had tumbled. ‘good-bye,‘ called dirola to them, as they passed out of her sight.
‘good-bye,‘ all called back softly, from the roof of the cavern. it was the last they were to see of

their kind friend. outside of the little cave they found a native waiting with a large sled, to which twenty

dogs were hitched. the esquimaux seemed to be watching for them, for he made a sign that they were to

get on a sled. no time was lost. dirola had evidently made her plans well and in haste. the dog

driver looked to see that his charges were safe, and then cracked his long whip. off went the sled at

a swift pace, the animals tugging at their harness. not a native was in sight save the one driving the

sled. they were all probably at the feast dirola had prepared in celebration of her home-coming. ‘this is the first
sled ride we ve had when we were not tied on like so much cordwood,' observed andy. ‘now we have

a chance to observe the scenery.‘ faster and faster went the sled. it was a calm clear cold day--or it

might have been night as far as time went, but the sun shone from a blue sky, it was very

cold, and the heavy furs made the adventurers none too warm. suddenly, as the party sped on, there came a

loud explosion. it was like a great cannon being fired. ‘what was that?‘ exclaimed andy, starting in alarm. with a
cry of fear the dog driver pointed behind him. looking over their shoulders, the escaping ones saw a great crack

in the ice field. in it showed the black waters of the ocean. ahead appeared an ever-widening black line, and

on either side it was the same. a large part of the ice field had become detached and was floating

out to sea. though they did not know it, the adventurers had driven over the water and away from the

land. ‘we are adrift on the ice!‘ cried andy. ‘we only escaped from one danger to fall into another!‘ for

a moment the realization of their horrible position struck all dumb. adrift on the great polar sea, they might freeze
to death before they again got near to the main land. the dogs continued to run on, approaching nearer the
ever-widening crack in front. the driver seemed to suddenly awaken to the danger. with a series of sharp commands he
brought the team to a halt. then, signing to the adventurers to get off the sled, he turned it over

on the side. next he unhitched the dogs, and fastened them by their thongs to his whip handle, which he

stuck in a crack in the ice. the beasts were thus secured at some distance from the sled. this done,

the esquimaux took the fur robes that had been on the sleigh, and, spreading them over the frame of the

vehicle, made a low but fairly large and comfortable tent. he motioned for the men and boys to crawl inside,

which they “were glad enough to do, to escape the bitter wind. then the native sat down in the low

doorway of the shelter and seemed willing to wait for whatever turned up. ‘it doesn t seem to worry him

much,‘ observed andy. ‘he certainly has made us comfortable,‘ said iack. ‘i wonder what we are going to do?‘ ‘wait
and see what turns up,‘ advised the professor. ‘we are on a large ice floe. it may float for many

days, and, after a while, strike the main ice again. when it does we will escape.‘ ‘yes, an what am

we goin to eat in dat time?‘ demanded washington. with a triumphant gesture iack pulled from his pocket a tin

can. it contained the patent condensed food capsules. ‘hurrah!’ cried the professor on seeing it. ‘this will keep us

