Maaseiah the priest to the prophet ﬂeremiah, saying, Pray now unto the Lord our God for us. Now ﬂeremiah came
in and went out among the people : for they had not put him into prison. Then Pharaoh s army

was come forth out of Egypt : and when the Chaldeans that besieged ﬂerusalem heard tidings of them, they departed
from tferusalem. Then came the word of the Lord unto the prophet ﬂeremiah, saying, Thus saith the Lord, the God
of 9srael ; Thus shall ye say to the king of 9udah, that sent you unto me to inquire of

me ; sehold, Pharaoh s army, which is come forth to help you, shall return to Egypt into their own

land. And the Chaldeans shall come again, and fight against this city, and take it, and burn it with fire,

Thus saith the Lord ; Deceive not yourselves, saying, The Chaldeans shall surely depart from us : for they shall
not depart. For though ye had smitten the whole army of the Chaldeans that fight against you, and there remained
but wounded men among them, yet should they rise up every man in his tent, and burn this city with

fire, 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 1698 Feremiah 37 And it came to pass, that

when the army of the Chaldeans was broken up from ﬂerusalem for fear of Pharaoh s army, then ﬂeremiah went
forth out of Ferusalem to go into the land of 8en/'amin, to separate himself thence in the midst of the

people. And when he was in the gate of Beniamin, a captain of the ward was there, whose name was

9riiah, the son of Shelemiah, the son of Hananiah ; and he took Fe/-emiah the prophet, saying, Thou fallest away
to the Chaldeans. Then said ﬁe/-emiah, 9t is false ; 9 fall not away to the Chaldeans. But he hearkened

not to him : so 9ri/°ah took ﬂeremiah, and brought him to the princes. wherefore the princes were wroth with
ﬂeremiah, and smote him, and put him in prison in the house of Fonathan the scribe ,' for they had

made that the prison. when éleremiah was entered into the dungeon, and into the cabins, and ﬂeremiah had remained there
many days ,' then Zedekiah the king sent, and took him out ,' and the king asked him secretly in

his house, and said, 9s there any word from the Lord .7 And ﬁeremiah said, There is : for, said

he, thou shalt be delivered into the hand of the king of Babylon. Moreover Feremiah said unto king Zedekiah, what
have 9 offended against thee, or against thy servants, or against this people, that ye have put me in prison

.7 where are now your prophets which prophesied unto you, saying, The king of Babylon shall not come against you,
nor against this land .7 Therefore hear now, 9 pray thee, O my lord the king .' let my supplication,

9 pray thee, be accepted before thee .' that thou cause me not to return to the house of 9onathan

the scribe, lest 9 die there. Then Zedekiah the king commanded that they should commit Feremiah into the court of
the prison, and that they should give him daily a piece of bread out of the bakers street, until all

the bread in the city were spent. Thus Feremiah remained in the court of the prison. 11 12 13 14

15 16 17 18 19 20 21 1699 Feremiah 38 38 Feremiah Rescued from the Dungeon Then Shephatiah the son

of Mattan, and Gedaliah the son of Pashur, and ﬂutal the son of Shelemiah, and Pashur the son of Malchiah,

heard the words that ﬁeremiah had spoken unto all the people, saying, Thus saith the Lord, He that remaineth in
this city shall die by the sword, by the famine, and by the pestilence .' but he that goeth forth

to the Chaldeans shall live .' for he shall have his life for a prey, and shall live. Thus saith

the Lord, This city shall surely be given into the hand of the king of .Babylon s army, which shall

take it, Therefore the princes said unto the king, we beseech thee, let this man be put to death .'

for thus he weakeneth the hands of the men of war that remain in this city, and the hands of

all the people, in speaking such words unto them : for this man seeketh not the welfare of this people,

but the hurt. Then Zedekiah the king said, Behold, he is in your hand : for the king is not

he that can do any thing against you. Then took they Feremiah, and cast him into the dungeon of Malchiah

the son of Hammelech, that was in the court of the prison : and they let down tferemiah with cords.

And in the dungeon there was no water, but mire : so ﬂeremiah sunk in the mire, Now when Ebed-melech

the Ethiopian, one of the eunuchs which was in the king s house, heard that they had put ﬁeremiah in

the dungeon ; the king then sitting in the gate of Beniamin ,- Ebed-melech went forth out of the king

s house, and spake to the king, saying, My lord the king, these men have done evil in all that

they have done to Feremiah the prophet, whom they have cast into the dungeon ,' and he is like to

die for hunger in the place where he is .' for there is no more bread in the city. 3'

2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1700 ﬂeremiah 38 Then the king commanded Ebed-melech the Ethiopian, saying, Take

from hence thirty men with thee, and take up Feremiah the prophet out of the dungeon, before he die. So
Ebed-melech took the men with him, and went into the house of the king under the treasury, and took thence

old cast clouts and old rotten rags, and let them down by cords into the dungeon to Feremiah. And Ebed-melech

the Ethiopian said unto Feremiah, Put now these old cast clouts and rotten rags under thine armholes under the cords.
And 9eremiah did so. So they drew up Feremiah with cords, and took him up out of the dungeon .'

and Feremiah remained in the court of the prison. Zedekiah Seeks Counsel from ﬂeremiah Then Zedekiah the king sent, and
took ﬂeremiah the prophet unto him into the third entry that is in the house of the Lord : and

the king said unto Feremiah, 9 will ask thee a thing ; hide nothing from me, Then Feremiah said

