the 27 of 865 Great Expectations mound beyond the ditch, when 9 saw
the man sitting before me. His back was towards me, and he had

his arms folded, and was nodding forward, heavy with sleep. 9 thought he
would be more glad if 9 came upon him with his breakfast, in

that unexpected manner, so 9 went forward softly and touched him on the
shoulder. He instantly iumped up, and it was not the same man, but
another man! And yet this man was dressed in coarse grey, too, and

had a great iron on his leg, and was lame, and hoarse, and

cold, and Was everything that the other man was; except that he had

not the same face, and had a flat broad- brimmed low-crowned felt that
on. All this, 9 saw in a moment, for 9 had only a

moment to see it in: he swore an oath at me, made a

hit at me - it was a round weak blow that missed me

and almost knocked himself down, for it made him stumble - and then

he ran into the mist, stumbling twice as he went, and 9 lost

him. 9t s the young man! 9 thought, feeling my heart shoot as

9 identified him. 9 dare say 9 should have felt a pain in

my liver, too, if 9 had known where it was. 9 was soon

at the Battery, after that, and there was the right man-hugging himself and
limping to and fro, as if he had never all night left off

hugging and limping - waiting 28 of 865 Great Expectations for me, He
was awfully cold, to be sure. 9 half expected to see him drop

down before my face and die of deadly cold. His eyes looked so

awfully hungry, too, that when 9 handed him the file and he laid

it down on the grass, it occurred to me he would have tried

to eat it, if he had not seen my bundle. He did not

turn me upside down, this time, to get at what 9 had, but

left me right side upwards while 9 opened the bundle and emptied my
pockets. what s in the bottle, boy? said he. arandy, said 9. He

was already handing mincemeat down his throat in the most curious manner -
more like a man who was putting it away somewhere in a violent

hurry, than a man who was eating it - but he left off

to take some of the liquor. He shivered all the while, so violently,

that it was quite as much as he could do to keep the

neck of the bottle between his teeth, without biting it off. 9 think

you have got the ague, said 9. 9 m much of your opinion,

boy, said he. ‘it s bad about here, 9 told him. You ve

been lying out on the meshes, and they re dreadful aguish. Rheumatic too.
9 ll eat my breakfast afore they re the death of me, said

he. 9 d do that, if 9 was going to be strung up

to that there 29 of 865 Great Expectations gallows as there is over
there, directly afterwards. 9 ll beat the shivers so far, 9 ll bet

you. He was gobbling mincemeat, meatbone, bread, cheese, and pork pie, all at
once: staring distrustfully while he did so at the mist all round us,

and often stopping - even stopping his jaws - to listen. Some real

or fancied sound, some clink upon the river or breathing of beast upon
the marsh, now gave him a start, and he said, suddenly: You re

not a deceiving imp? You brought no one with you? No, sir! No!

Nor giv no one the office to follow you? No! well, said he,

9 believe you. You d be but a fierce .V‘§ung hound indeed, if

at your time of life you could help to hunt a wretched

