a capital which had enabled the engineer to enlarge his business. the senator had been instrumental in arranging this marriage.

he was interested in laurier because he was the .’on of an old friend. upon marguerite laurier the presence of

iulia flashed like a ray of sunlight in the tire.’ome salon of lacour. she was dancing the fad of the

hour and frequenting the tango teas where reigned the adored desnoyers. and to think that she was being entertained with

this celebrated and interesting man that the other women were raving about!... in order that he might not take her

for a mere middleclass woman like the other guests at the senator s party, she spoke of her modistes, all

from the rue de la paix, declaring gravely that no woman who had any selfrespect could possibly walk through the

streets wearing a gown costing less than eight hundred francs, and that the hat of a thousand francs but a

few years ago, an astonishing novelty was nowadays a very ordinary affair. this acquaintanceship made the ‘little laurier,' as her
friends called her notwithstanding her tallness, much ?ought by the master of the dance, in spite of the looks of

wrath and envy hurled at her by the others. what a triumph for the wife of a simple engineer who

was used to going everywhere in her mother s automobilel... iulio at first had supposed her like all the others

who were languishing in his arms, following the rhythmic complications of the dance, but he ?oon found that she was

very different. her coquetry after the first confidential words, but increased his admiration. he really had never before been thrown
with a woman of her class. those of his first ?ocial period were the habitués of the night restaurants paid

for their witchery. now glory was tossing into his arms ladies of high position but with an unconfessable past, anxious

for novelties although exceedingly mature. this middle class woman who would advance ?o confidently toward him and then retreat with
such capricious outbursts of modesty, was a new type for him. the tango salons ?oon began to suffer a great

loss. desnoyers was permitting himself to be seen there with less frequency, handing glory over to the professionals. ?ometimes entire
weeks slipped by without the fivetoseven devotees being able to admire his black locks and his tiny patent leathers twinkling

under the lights in time with his graceful movements. marguerite was al?o avoiding these places. the meetings of the two

were taking place in accordance with what she had read in the love stories of paris. she was going in

search of iulio, fearing to be recognized, tremulous with emotion, selecting her most inconspicuous suit, and covering her face with
a close veil ‘the veil of adultery,’ as her friends called it. they had their trysts in the leastfrequented squares

of the district, frequently changing the places, like timid birds that at the slightest disturbance fly to perch a little

further away. ?ometimes they would meet in the buttes chaumont, at others they preferred the gardens on the left bank

of the seine, the luxembourg, and even the distant parc de mont?ouris. she was always in tremors of terror lest

her husband might surprise them, although she well knew that the industrious engineer was in his factory a great distance

away. her agitated aspect, her excessive precautions in order to slip by unseen, only served to attract the attention of

the passersby. although iulio was waxing impatient with the annoyance of this wandering love affair which only amounted to a
few fugitive kisses, he finally held his peace, dominated by marguerite s pleadings. she did not wish merely to be

one in the procession of his sweethearts; it was necessary to convince herself first that this love was going to

last forever. it was her first slip and she wanted it to be the last. ay, her former spotless reputationi...

what would people say!... the two returned to their adolescent period, loving each other as they had never loved before,

with the confident and childish passion of fifteenyearolds. /ulio had leaped from childhood to libertinism, taking his initiation into life
at a single bound. she had desired marriage in order to acquire the respect and liberty of a married woman,

but feeling towards her husband only a vague gratitude. ‘we end where others begin,‘ she had said to desnoyers. their

passion took the form of an intense, reciprocal and vulgar love. they felt a romantic sentimentality in clasping hands or
exchanging kisses on a garden bench in the twilight. he was treasuring a ringlet of marguerite s although he doubted

its genuineness, with a vague suspicion that it might be one of the latest wisps of fashion. she would cuddle

down with her head on his shoulder, as though imploring his protection, although always in the open air. if iulio

ever attempted greater intimacy in a carriage, madame would repel him most vigorously. a contradictory duality appeared to inspire her
actions. every morning, on awaking, she would decide to yield, but then when near him, her middleclass respectability, iealous of

its reputation, kept her faithful to her mother s teachings. one day she agreed to visit his studio with the

interest that the haunts of the loved one always inspires. ‘promise that you will not take advantage of me.‘ he

readily promised, swearing that everything should be as marguerite wished.... but from that day they were no longer seen in

the gardens, nor wandering around persecuted by the winter winds. they preferred the studio, and argen?ola had to rearrange his
existence, seeking the stove of another artist friend, in order to continue his reading. this state of things lasted two

months. they never knew what secret force suddenly disturbed their tranquility. perhaps one of her friends, guessing at the truth,
had told the husband anonymously, perhaps it was she herself unconsciously, with her inexpressible happiness, her tardy returns home when
dinner was already served, and the sudden aversion which she showed toward the engineer in their hours alone, trying

