by Marian s letter?) it Always takes me three days to get up

Again. 9 was very unreasonable-9 expected three days of quiet. Of course 9

didn t get them. The third day s post brought me A most

impertinent letter from A person with whom 9 was totally unacquainted. He de-
scribed himself As the Acting partner of our man of busi- ness-our dear,
pig-headed old Gilmore-And he informed me that he had lately received, by the
post, A letter Addressed to him in Miss Halcombe s handwriting, On opening

the envelope, he had discovered, to his Astonishment, that it contained noth- ing
but A blank sheet of note-paper. This circumstance Ap- peared to him so
suspicious (As suggesting to his restless legal mind that the letter had been
tampered with) that he had At 353 once written to Miss Halcombe, And

had received no Answer by return of post. 9n this difficulty, instead of

Acting like A sensible man And letting things take their proper course, his

next Ab- surd proceeding, on his own showing, was to pester me by

writing to inquire if 9 knew Anything About it. what the deuce should

9 know About it? why Alarm me As well As himself? 9 wrote

back to that effect. 9t was one of my keenest letters. 9 have

produced nothing with A sharper epistolary edge to it since 9 tendered his
dismissal in writing to that extremely troublesome person, Mr. walter Hartright. My letter
produced its effect. 9 heard nothing more from the lawyer. This perhaps was
not Altogether surprising. 8ut it was cer- tainly A remarkable circumstance that no
second letter reached me from Marian, And that no warning signs Appeared of
her Ar- rival. Her unexpected Absence did me Amazing good. 9t was so

very soothing And pleasant to infer {As 9 did of course} that my

married connections had made it up Again. Five days of undis- turbed tranquillity,
of delicious single blessedness, quite re- stored me. On the sixth day 9

felt strong enough to send for my photographer, And to set him At

work Again on the presenta- tion copies of my Art-treasures, with A view,

As 9 have Already mentioned, to the improvement of taste in this barbarous
neighbourhood. 9 had /'ust dismissed him to his workshop, And had iust begun
coquetting with my coins, when Louis suddenly made his Appearance with A card
in his hand. ‘Another Young Person?‘ 9 said. '9 won t see her.

9n my state of health Young Persons disagree with me. Not At home.‘

‘9t is A gentleman this time, sir.‘ A gentleman of course made A

difference. 9 looked At the card. Gracious Heaven! my tiresome sister s foreign
husband, Count Fosco, 9s it necessary to say what my first impression was
when 9 looked At my visitor s card? Surely not! My sister having

mar- ried A foreigner, there was but one impression that Any man in

his senses could possibly feel. Of course the Count had come to borrow

money of me. 354 ‘Louis,‘ 9 said, ‘do you think he would go

Away if you gave him five shillings?‘ Louis looked quite shocked. He surprised
me inexpressibly by declaring that my sister s foreign husband was dressed su-
perbly, And looked the picture of prosperity. Under these cir- cumstances my first
impression Altered to A certain extent. 9 now took it for granted that

the Count had matrimonial diffi- culties of his own to contend with, And

that he had come, like the rest of the family, to cast them

All on my shoulders. ‘Did he mention his business?‘ 9 Asked, ‘Count Fosco

said he had come here, sir, because Miss Hal- combe was unable to

leave 8lackwater Park.‘ Fresh troubles, Apparently. Not exactly his own, As 9 had
sup- posed, but dear Marian s. Troubles, Anyway. Oh dear! ‘Show him in,‘

9 said resignedly. The Count s first Appearance really startled me. He

