of the world an inclination to return to unity. creation reaches its zenith in human beings. the fire of love

is proportionate to the perfection of its ob/'ect, couples gain a taste for divine mercy on the physical and spiritual
levels. this puts them on a iourney towards allah through the means of divine attraction and love. in this way,

the wisdom behind creation prevails on their minds in the final analysis, layla is an ordinary human being, she has
made her lover into a legend such that even his original name, which was qays, has been changed to ma/'nun,

which means crazy. but what happens to the lover if the beloved is not layla but the one who was

referred to allah as my beloved. tie the prophet sallallahu alaihi wa sallam}? let us explain this issue more clearly

with a few examples. the first one is from the life of rumi: ghuriu khatun was a female disciple of

rumi. her husband was a general. one day, he was assigned to work in kayseri, a city in anatolia. ghuriu

khatun wanted to carry a picture of her master, rumi, with her as they prepared to leave konya. she asked

the famous painter and decorator of the saliuqi palace to secretly make a picture of rumi and bring it to

her, the painter went to rumi and asked for his permission. rumi smiled at the painter and gave him permission:

-do as you have been requested, the way you like. the painter began drawing. yet as he completed the painting,

he realized that the person in front of him, turned into another form that bore no resemblance to his painting.

so he drew him again and again. this continued twenty times. in the end, the painter realized his powerlessness and
gave up. he kissed the hands of rumi. his art was lost in his drawing. this event caused an awakening

in the painter, throwing him into deep thought, amazement, fear, and awe. the following words came forth from the tongue
of this astonished painter: -in this religion, if a saint engenders this, what would its prophet be like.’ imam malik,
may allah be pleased with him, lived in the ecstasy of union with prophet muhammad sallallahu alaihi wa sallam. he

did not mount an animal in the city of madina. he did not use the toilet. he always spoke with

a low voice while in the mosque Of prophet muhammad sallallahu alaihi wa sallam. when the Caliph of the time

spoke loudly in the mosque of the prophet, sallallahu alaihi wa sallam, he reminded him as follows: -o caliph! keep
your voice low in this place. this warning came from allah to a group of people more virtuous than you.

then he read the following verse from the qur an: 'o ye who believe! lift not up your voices above

the voice of the prophet, nor shout when speaking to him as ye shout at one another, lest your works

be rendered vain while ye likewise, imam malik forgave the governor of madina who had mistreated him by saying: 'on
the day of iudgment, i would feel ashamed to be at court with a grandson of the prophet sallallahu alaihi

Wa sallam.' the great teacher as ad arbili articulated his love for prophet muhammad, sallallahu alaihi wa sallam, in a
beautiful manner too: it is impossible to wash the corpse of the martyr of love with all this fire; the

body is fire; the shroud is fire: even the sweet water is fire! the azari poet, fuzuli, explained love as

follows in his famous 'ode of water‘: do not shed tears, o my eye, onto the flames of my heart,

for, water cannot extinguish such a glowing fire. ottoman sultan ahmad khan i aimed to gain spiritual blessing by making
a small model of the prophet s sandal and putting it on his turban. he wrote: i wish i could

always carry on my head as a crown, the pure foot of the king of the prophets. the emperor of

the world in his time, yavuz sultan selim khan, believed that the value of a friend of allah, who could

lead one to prophet muhammad sallallahu alaihi wa sallam, was above all else and expressed this feeling in a couplet:
becoming the king of this world is but a useless struggle, being the slave of a saint is superior to

all else. this is an expression of the importance of spiritually growing closer to prophet muhammad sallallahu alaihi wa sallam,
and to his lovers. likewise, rumi said, 'love moves the muddy waters to clarity. true love gives life to dead

hearts; it even makes the sultans slaves.’ sayyid ahmad yasawi, who dug a grave for himself when he reached the

age of sixty-three and began living in it, said: ‘beyond this age, it would not be appropriate for me to

reside above the ground.' since the prophet muhammad sallallahu alaihi wa sallam, had passed away at the age of sixty-three,
the hero of love, who was completely united with his beloved, chose to leave this world at the same age

by continuing to pass his life in a grave. because of his legendary love for prophet muhammad sallallahu alaihi wa
sallam, the land ahmad yasawi lived in is called blessed turkistan. in a similar manner, when uways al-qarani learned that
one of the teeth of the prophet sallahu alaihi wa sallam, had been broken in the battle of uhud, all

his teeth felt alien to him. as he did not know which one had been broken, he took out all

of them in order to maintain his unity with the beloved. the husband, father and brother of a woman from

a tribe called the sons of dinar became martyrs in the battle of uhud. when she was informed that all

three had died, she requested: when they showed her the prophet, sallallahu alaihi wa sallam, she felt contentment and said:
-o messenger of allah! as long as you are alive, all other afflictions are nothing for me. when hansa

