his horse in riding round in quest of one, for we have a bag of truffles, and nought to eat with them. never have i seen such locusts

as this vanguard of ours. not a pullet shall we see until we are in front of therm; so i shall leave my winchester runagates to the care

of the provost-marshal, and i shall hie south with you, nigel, with my truffles at my saddle-bow.’ ‘oliver, oliver, i know you over-well,‘ said sir nigel, shaking his

head, and the two old soldiers rode off together to their pavilion. to the south of pampeluna in the kingdom of navarre there stretched a high table-land, rising

into bare, sterile hills, brown or gray in color, and strewn with huge boulders of granite. on the gascon side of the great mountains there had been running

streams, meadows, forests, and little nestling villages. here, on the contrary, were nothing but naked rocks, poor pasture, and savage, stone-strewn wastes, gloomy defiles or barrancas intersected this
wild country with mountain torrents dashing and foaming between their rugged sides. the clatter of waters, the scream of the eagle, and the howling of wolves the only
sounds which broke upon the silence in that dreary and inhospitable region, through this wild country it was that sir nigel and his company pushed their way, riding

at times through vast Vefiles where the brown, gnarled cliffs shot up on either side of them, and the sky was but a long winding blue slit between

the clustering lines of box which fringed the lips of the precipices; or, again leading their horses along the narrow and rocky paths worn by the muleteers upon

the edges of the chasm, where under their very elbows they could see the white streak which marked the gave which foamed a thousand feet below them. so

for two days they pushed their way through the wild places of navarre, past fuente, over the rapid ega, through estella, until upon a winter s evening the

mountains fell away from in front of them, and they saw the broad blue ebro curving betwixt its double line or homesteads and of villages. the fishers of

viana were aroused that night by rough voices speaking in a strange tongue, and ere morning sir nigel and his men had ferried the river and were safe

upon the land of spain. all the next day they lay in a pine wood near to the town of logrono, resting their horses and taking counsel as

to what they should do. sir nigel had with him sir william felton, sir oliver buttesthorn, stout old sir simon burley, the scotch knight- errant, the earl of

angus, and sir richard causton, all accounted among the bravest knights in the army, together with sixty veteran men-at-arms, and three hundred and twenty archers. spies had been
sent out in the morning, and returned after nightfall to say that the king of spain was encamped some fourteen miles off in the direction of burgos, having

with him twenty thousand horse and forty-five thousand foot. a dry-wood fire had been lit, and round this the leaders crouched, the glare beating upon their rugged faces,
while the hardy archers lounged and chatted amid the tethered horses, while they munched their scanty provisions. ‘for my part,‘ said sir simon burley, 'i am of opinion
that we have already done that which we have come for. for do we not now know where the king is, and how great a following he hath,

which was the end of our /°ourney.' 'true,' answered sir william felton, 'but i have come on this venture because it is a long time since i have

broken a spear in war, and, certes, i shall not go back until i have run a course with some cavalier of spain. let those go back who

will, but i must see more of these spaniards ere i turn.‘ 'i will not leave you, sir william,‘ returned sir simon burley,’ 'and yet, as an old

soldier and one who hath seen much of war, i cannot but think that it is an ill thing for four hundred men to find themselves between an

army of sixty thousand on the one side and a broad river on the other.' 'yet,' said sir richard causton, ‘we cannot for the honor of england go

back without a blow struck.’ 'nor for the honor of scotland either,’ cried the earl of angus, 'by saint andrew! i wish that i may never set eyes

upon the Water of leith again, if i pluck my horse s bridle ere i have seen this camp of theirs,' 'by saint paul! you have spoken very

well,‘ said sir nigel, 'and i have always heard that there were very worthy gentlemen among the scots, and fine skirmishing to be had upon their border, bethink

you, sir simon, that we have this news from the lips of common spies, who can scarce tell us as much of the enemy and of his forces

as the prince would wish to hear.’ 'you are the leader in this venture, sir nigel,’ the other answered, 'and i do but ride under your banner.'

