in wisconsin noW.' bob had no trouble recognizing the turn-off. he d always know the way back here, he swung

the cherokee into the empty lot. something didn t look quite right. maxie s place was closed. bob walked slowly

to the front door. he was still several feet away when he saw the wars the great midwest. the snow

belt. living, working and driving there can be at best a challenge and at worst a hazard to life and

limb. but to a kid in junior high school, and hating it, the snow belt can bring ioyous freedom. for

not only is the great midwest home to severe weather, it is also the home of snow days. snow days.

parents face them with dread and trepidation, but the kids embrace them with relish. a snow day means a day

away from geometry, social studies and gym. it means a day spent snuggled in bed until well past ten in

the morning and then in a near-paralytic stupor in front of the cathode ray god. unless you lived in my

neighborhood back in the early 1960 s. snow wars. in my neighborhood, a heavy snow meant one thing and one

thing only snow wars were combat with an intensity rivaling iuno beach. snow wars in which no clear winner was

ever determined. not even the spring thaw brought peace in our time. hostilities were merely suspended temporarily, until the next
snow day. our snow wars were fought along multiple fronts, which rarely followed traditional patterns. a front might stretch for
ten city blocks, bending and twisting to accommodate the most ideal defensive positions. hedges were preferred because the approaching enemy
forces could be observed for some distance, yet the defenders were safe from assault. not even the most tightly packed

iceball could penetrate a thick hedgerow. thorns were always a bonus. even the boldest of snow warriors would not risk

crippling injury at the hands of a prickly bush, not even for the thrill of pummeling the enemy into submission.

Old lady burnham s house was, by universal agreement, the dmz. she had little patience for thirteen-year-olds and even less

for the occasional misfired shot. telephone calls to parents, or the police, were the most effective deterrent to a well-organized
offensive ever developed. those of us on the receiving end of one of old lady burnham s complaints always believed

that the united nations missed the boat in not using her as an international peacekeeper. she could strike fear in

the hearts of the coldest snow troopers. even the prickly bushes were preferable to a round with old lady burnham.

for that reason, landmarks easily recognizable to both sides were established at various locations along our fronts for the sole
purpose of warning the combatants of their increasingly dangerous proximity to the haunts of old lady burnham. the fire hydrant
on the corner of tenth and crescent was the absolute edge of the free-firing zone. beyond that point, the possibility

of an errant overhand lob finding its way onto old lady burnham s front porch became a behavior modifier more

significant than being hit squarely in the face by one of chucky scaparelli s full-bore fastballs. the day the snow

wars changed forever began not unlike all previous snow days. a ten-inch overnight snowfall, coupled with an inch of sleet,

sealed the fate of school early on. like all good snow troopers, we listened for school closing reports on our

radios beginning at around five-thirty in the morning. any and all background noise halted immediately with the words: 'the following
schools are closed today due to weather conditions...‘ the silence continued until we heard the name we all waited for,

our school, mentioned among the list of climatic casualties. then the cacophony of voices in full cheer mode could be

heard from households all over town. for our parents, it was iust another day to slog to the office or

the plant, for us, it was party time. we barely finished our breakfasts before donning our best snow wars bib

and tucker. off to the field of battle we trotted as fast as our buckle-booted feet could carry us. the

battle commenced pretty much as it had stopped earlier in the week, with the combatants taking up positions along a

front covering at least /‘bur city blocks. the ice-covered snow was perfect for our mission, which was to leave no

human body unscathed. chucky scaparelli and his minions mounted an attack on our left flank, catching us by surprise, no

one in our group figured chucky for having the intelligence to plan those kinds of elaborate tactics. his usual approach

was straightforward and direct, namely, a rock-hard fist applied liberally to soft, break-away facial features. fortunately for our side, my
cousin phil and several of his buddies spotted the assault in time to react. phil s forces had the temporary

advantage of greater numbers. thus blessed, his suicide squad managed to drive chucky and his gang back behind gladstone s
pharmacy. the rest of us, at phil s prompting, decided to press our advantage. we poured over the front lines

in pursuit of the fleeing enemy. hurling iceballs as fast as we could pack them, we gained almost an entire

block before chucky s squad regrouped and held. they had managed to retreat as far as the prickly hedgerow along

the alley behind the martins house. since bob martin was among chucky s troops, any hopes of their being driven

off by an irate homeowner vanished. we pulled up well out of range of the siege we knew was soon

to begin. nobody wanted to concede a standoff this early in the day. what we needed was a plan. what

we got was ricky nettrow s little brother volunteering to sneak around behind and hit them from the rear. to

our minds, such a move was sheer madness. meatface. chucky liked being outwitted in snow wars even less than he

liked being called by his nickname (chucky was the first among us to develop acne.) We could only imagine

