after almost three days of flying a round robin and coming home with a surprise package of dope smugglers. ‘don

t answer that. it was rhetorical. still can t pin down a closer date?‘ ‘no. tomi is sticking to the

tenth, but cheryl and the doctor are saying any day now, before the tenth.‘ ‘bob hasn t been able to

get an answer from the squadron on a schedule for you?‘ ‘they keep stalling. i think that they want the

baby to show up quick and they ll get out of making a decision. not that it s a big

deal. we ve already flown more hours than any other kc on the base.‘ ‘hopefully he ll have an answer

when we get on the ground.‘ rick moved down to the starbread over wing hatch and through its tiny window

watched the east china sea s colors change from a deep blue to a greenish blue then the foamy white

breakers hitting the golden sand beaches of okinawa. the tanker s pilot leveled her wings and continued their descent towards
the runway as the breakers disappeared under the leading edge of the right wing. ‘you know leo, i always love

flying into this island and landing on 5. watching the sea change colors and the breakers foaming against the beaches,
seeing the small villages amongst the green trees and red roads meandering around the fields of sugar cane and under

the trees. it s really terrible what we re doing to this beautiful island. thousands of acres of farmland and

lush green foliage being bulldozed and paved over so we can put more explosives and hydrocarbon gulping trucks and airplanes
here.‘ ‘letting a little sentimental and philosophical aren t we?‘ ‘yeah, i guess so. i really love this island and

it s people.‘ rick grew quiet and leo went back to his seat in the cargo compartment getting ready for

landing. he continued to gaze out the tiny window and flexed his knees to keep his balance just before the

mains screech down on the concrete. bob kruse met them on the ramp as they closed up 3653 and gathered

up their flight gear. ‘who are your friends? they said you had special passengers abread but i didn t expect

them to have armed escorts. kind of got suspicious though when they said the aps would bread as soon as

we got the stairs in place before the rest of the geese were offloaded.‘ ‘iust a couple of low grade

drug dealers from the little iohn site at white beach, thought they would make the big time before going back

to conus.‘ leo answered. ‘i have good news and bad news. which do you want, rick? none of it is

terrible, but it s the best that the first sergeant and i could do for you and tomi. ‘go ahead.

it can t be too awful bad by the look on your face and the fact that cheryl isn t

here raising hell with the whole air force says so,‘ ‘the squadron commander thinks it s a fairchild issue and

that we should have gone to them. but in the end he compromised. i think that he got some pressure

from a couple of flight crews that i happened to talk to while you guys were gallivanting all over the

pacific ocean.‘ ‘we ll travel night an day till we reach the old man an have him send the bones

back. i hate to do it, but we have no choice. anyhow, we might as well be hanged for stealin

a horse as for anything else.‘ they topped a hill and came face to face with a rider traveling town

ward, his gaze took in the animals carrying the fugitives and iumped to the face of billie. in the eyes

of the man was an expression blended of suspicion and surprise. he passed with a nod and a surly ‘

evenin .‘ ‘fine luck we re havin , billie,‘ commented his friend with a little laugh. ‘i give sanders twenty

minutes to be on our trail.‘ through the gathering darkness prince watched the figure of his companion droop. the slim,
lithe body sagged and the shoulders were heavy with exhaustion. both small hands clung to the pommel of the saddle.

it took no prophet to see that in his present condition the wounded man would never travel the gun-barrel road

as far as the dust of the flying v y herd. even by easy stages he could not do it,

and with pursuit thundering at their heels the ride would be a cruel, grilling one. ‘how about pullin a little

strategy on sanders, iim? instead of hittin the long trail, let s circle back around the town, strike the river,

make camp, an lie low in the chaparral. does that listen good to you?‘ young clanton looked at his friend

suspiciously. the .VQunger man was fagged out and in a good deal of pain. the iolting of the pony s

movements /arred the bandages on the wound. already his fever was high and he had moments of light-headedness. he knew
that his partner was proposing to ieopardize his own chances of escape in order to take care of him. ‘no
sir. we ll keep goin right ahead,‘ he said irritably. ‘think i m a quitter? think i m goin to

lie down on you?‘ ‘would i be likely to think that?‘ asked billie gently. ‘what i m thinking is that

both of us would be better for a good night s rest. why not throw off an camp in the

darkness? while we re sleepin sanders an his posse will be ridin the hearts out of their horses. it looks
like good business to me to let em go to it.‘ ‘no,’ said iim obstinately. ‘no. we ll keep ridin

.‘ prince knew that the other understood what he was trying to do, and that his pride--and perhaps something better
than pride--would not accept such a sacrifice, billie said no more, but his mind still wrestled with the problem

I

