.' nevertheless, not my will, but thine, be done. And there appeared an angel unto him from heaven, strengthening him.
And being in an agony he prayed more earnestly .' and his sweat was as it were great drops of

blood falling down to the ground. And when he rose up from prayer, and was come to his disciples, he

found them sleeping for sorrow, and said unto them, why sleep ye ? rise and pray, lest ye enter into

temptation. The Betrayal and Arrest of ﬂesus And while he yet spake, behold a multitude, and he that was called
Fudas, one of the twelve, went before them, and drew near unto ﬂesus to kiss him, But ﬂesus said unto

him, iudas, betrayest thou the Son of man with a kiss .7 when they which were about him saw what

would follow, they said unto him, Lord, shall we smite with the sword .7 And one of them smote the

servant of the high priest, and cut off his right ear, And ﬂesus answered and said, Suffer ye thus far,

And he touched his ear, and healed him. Then ﬂesus said unto the chief priests, and captains of the temple,

and the elders, which were come to him, Be ye come out, as against a thief, with swords and staves

.’ when 9 was daily with you in the temple, ye stretched forth no hands against me : but this

is your hour, and the power of darkness. Peter Denies Fesus Then took they him, and led him, and brought

him into the high priest s house. And Peter followed afar off. 4.? 43 44 45 46' 47 48 49

50 51 5.? 53 54 2233 Luke 2.? And when they had kindled a fire in the midst of the

hall, and were set down together, Peter sat down among them. But a certain maid beheld him as he sat

by the fire, and earnestly looked upon him, and said, This man was also with him. And he denied him,

saying, woman, 9 know him not. And after a little while another saw him, and said, Thou art also of

them. And Peter said, Man, 9 am not. And about the space of one hour after another confidently affirmed, saying,
Of a truth this fellow also was with him ,' for he is a Galilean, And Peter said, Man, 9

know not what thou sayest. And immediately, while he .V('t spake, the cock crew. And the Lord turned, and looked
upon Peter. And Peter remembered the word of the Lord, how he had said unto him, Before the cock crow,

thou shalt deny me thrice. And Peter went out, and wept bitterly. Fesus Mocked and Beaten And the men that

held iesus mocked him, and smote him. And when they had blindfolded him, they struck him on the face, and

asked him, saying, Prophesy, who is it that smote thee .’ And many other things blasphemously spake they against him.
Fesus before the Council And as soon as it was day, the elders of the people and the chief priests

and the scribes came together, and led him into their council, saying, Art thou the Christ .7 tell us. And

he said unto them, 9f 9 tell you, ye will not believe : and if 9 also ask you, ye

will not answer me, nor let me go. Hereafter shall the Son of man sit on the right hand of

the power of God. 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 2234

Luke 23 Then said they all, Art thou then the Son of God .7 And he said unto them, Ye

say that 9 am. And they said, what need we any further witness .7 for we ourselves have heard of

his own mouth. 23 Fesus before Pilate And the whole multitude of them arose, and led him unto Pilate. And

they began to accuse him, saying, we found this fellow perverting the nation, and forbidding to give tribute to Caesar,
saying that he himself is Christ a king, And Pilate asked him, saying, Art thou the King of the ﬂews

.’ And he answered him and said, Thou sayest it. Then said Pilate to the chief priests and to the

people, 9 find no fault in this man. And they were the more fierce, saying, He stirreth up the people,

teaching throughout all ﬂewry, beginning from Galilee to this place. 9esus before Herod when Pilate heard of Galilee, he asked
whether the man were a Galilean. And as soon as he knew that he belonged unto Herod s iurisdiction, he

sent him to Herod, who himself also was at ﬂerusalem at that time. And when Herod saw Fesus, he was

exceeding glad : for he was desirous to see him of a long season, because he had heard many things

of him .' and he hoped to have seen some miracle done by him. Then he questioned with him in

many words ,' but he answered him nothing. And the chief priests and scribes stood and vehemently accused him, 70
71 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 3 9 70 2235 Luke 23 And Herod with his men of

war set him at nought, and mocked him, and arrayed him in a gorgeous robe, and sent him again to

Pilate. And the same day Pilate and Herod were made friends together ,' for before they were at enmity between
themselves. ttesus Sentenced to Die And Pilate, when he had called together the chief priests and the rulers and the
people, said unto them, Ye have brought this man unto me, as one that perverteth the people ; and, behold,

9, having examined him before you, have found no fault in this man touching those things whereof ye accuse him
: no, nor yet Herod : for 9 sent you to him ; and, lo, nothing worthy of death is

done unto him. 9 will therefore chastise him, and release him, (For of necessity he must release one unto them

at the feast.) And they cried out all at once, saying, Away with this man, and release unto us Barabbas

: (who for a certain sedition made in the city, and for murder, was cast into prison.) Pilate therefore, willing

to release fesus, spake again to them. But they cried, saying, 6'rucify him, crucify him, And he said unto them

the third time, why, what evil hath he done ? 9 have found no cause of death in him :

9 will therefore chastise him, and let him go. And they were instant with loud voices, requiring that he

