severe, but a captain must be a captain and a crew must be responsible for their activities. the experience of

the old ocean voyages has shown that a lenient captain was even worse than an overly strict captain. i think

that this captain is a gem.‘ gabriel dead? the thought of it brought anna s rampant thoughts to a raging

halt. she struggled for internal control and found it with the barest rein on her emotions. ‘there s no need

for that,‘ aurore called to her. ‘no need at all.‘ ‘and meg?‘ she called back. ‘you killed her, too?‘ aurore

was silent for a moment. ‘it s so interesting about bloodlines here. the strongest ones are able to do the

most. the strongest ones become elders and protectors.‘ a brief silence followed that, and then she added, ‘despite that neither
of my sons could ever find their way down here without a map. like you can.‘ the photograph arette had

kept in the book came back to anna s mind. she had thought it a photograph of gaspard benoit. but

she hadn t accounted for the simple issue of time. the photograph was at least twenty-four years old and gaspard
would have been a child. it wasn t a picture of the son, but of the father, of the man

that arette had secretly loved, a younger sebastien. ‘sebastien was my mother s lover.‘ ‘ah, oui. apparently she was too
much for sebastien to resist.‘ she paused. ‘arette had a little tingle of the gift. i think maybe her family

might have had a distant relative to us. some great-granny perhaps.‘ ‘Jesus christ!‘ anna swore. ‘did you have to kill
her, too?‘ aurore s silence was telling. ‘it was the only way to protect the family. arette liked to talk

to people. she was a friendly one. and they liked to talk to her. some outsiders can be like that,

like your friend in new orleans. but arette was curious about the mine. and she found her way down her,

iust like you. what she discovered in this room caused her to take her unborn child and flee to some

far off place. but i had known of her presence. i asked gautier about her but he simply said she

was gone. when arette came back, several people saw her and recognized her as she made her way to her

husband s home. she didn t know that word tends to get around.‘ there was a significant pause, ‘it had

to be done and gautier would never betray us. we didn t know about the child. about you. gautier must

have found you inside arette s car and it was he who took you away. took you away to protect

you from me.‘ her voice seemed to be coming closer. anna realized aurore was stalling her while she searched for
her. the gift wasn t like radar unless anna chose to tell her where she was. she began to low

crawl through the vehicles and hunks of machinery, trying to work her way around to the other side of the

room where the main opening was located. feeling her way with her hands, she hoped that she wouldn t slice

some of her flesh wide open with a rusted piece of metal. keeping the glow of aurore s light on

her right side, she moved cautiously. 'i think maybe you ve got me wrong, child. best to come clean with

you and hope blood runs true in your veins. i forgave sebastien for the slight of your mother years ago,

but even he wasn t sure if You should be privy to every little secret the family possesses.‘ what are

you saying, aurore? you don t intend to kill me like you did all of them.’ she felt the bumper

of a car and wondered whom it had belonged to and what isolated, innocent act of being in the wrong

place at the wrong time they had committed. i don t want to kill you. not unless i have to.

stand up, anna. show me you trust me. it was the same voice in her mind that had warned her

that she would be iudged, iudged like gautier debou. ‘oh, god,‘ she said. ‘you killed him, too? and if i

hadn t come along, his body would have vanished into the mine, as well?‘ ‘he kept sebastien s child away

from me, away from the family,‘ aurore snarled. ‘he and that bitch of a woman, meg theriot. she wasn t

one of us. not really. she only had a smattering of the gift and far too greedy to suit anyone.‘

‘what did meg have to do with it?‘ -she helped your mother run from the family, taking you with her.

gautier wanted to protect you. he knew that...‘ ‘what? gautier knew what." anna kept moving. the light was almost to
the peterbilt truck now. aurore didn t know where anna was, but if she kept moving she might be able

to outsmart the older woman. outrun her, too. she had marked every passage. aurore wouldn t know where anna was
going until she had fled. there were too many tunnels for aurore or his sons if they were there as

well. ‘as sebastien s child, with the amount of power you have, you become the next guardian. not gaspard. not
raoul. neither have the right gifts. it was always yours. the elders knew that you would do this. we all

knew.‘ anna was instantly outraged. ‘you mean i m supposed to be some kind of official assassin for the family,
taking care of problems like the ones that fill this cave?‘ she paused. ‘you ve got a helluva thing up

on the mafia. casting huge shadows that move like monsters.’ what do you do with the bodies? feed them to
gouion?‘ ‘the outsiders have ruined you,‘ aurore said sadly. her voice echoed weirdly over the chamber and anna knew that
she was almost to the opposite side. she barked her shin on an old conveyer belt and held the

