‘gone?’ said larry. ‘yes, scuddy took her home.‘ ‘are they all gone?‘ inquired larry. ‘yes, for the most part.‘ ‘oh
all right then: i think i shall not go in. goodnight,‘ he said, turned abruptly about and set off for

dr. brown s. he looked again at his watch. he was surprised to find it was not ?o very late.

why had fane not waited for him? had he hurt her again? he was ?orely disappointed. surely she had no
rea?on to be offended, and this was his last night. as he thought the matter over he came to the

conclusion that now it was he that had a grievance. arrived at dr. brown s house the only light to

be seen was in iane s room upstairs. should he go in or should he go home and wait till

to morrow. he was too miserable to think of going home without seeing her. he determined that he must see
her at all cost tonight. he took a pebble and {lung it up against her window, and another and another.

the window opened and /'ane appeared. ‘oh, larry,‘ she whispered. ‘is it you? wait, i shall be down.‘ she opened
the door for him and stood waiting for him to speak. ‘why didn t you wait?‘ he asked, passing into

the hall. ‘i was not very long.‘ ‘why should i wait, larry?' she said quietly. ‘scuddy told me you had

gone home with helen.‘ ‘but didn t i promise that i would take you home?‘ ‘you did, and then went

away.‘ ‘well, all i have to say, lane, is that this is not a bit like you. i am ?orry

i brought you down, and i won t keep you any longer. goodnight. i shall see you tomorrow.‘ but iane

got between him and the door and stood with her back to it. ‘no, larry, you are not going away

like that. go into the study.‘ larry looked at her in astonishment. this was indeed a new iane to him.
wrathful, imperious, she stood waving him toward the study door. in spite of his irritation he was conscious of a
new admiration for her. feeling a little like a boy about to receive his punishment, he passed into the study.

‘didn t mrs. allen give you my message?‘ he said. ‘your message, larry?' cried iane, a light breaking upon her

face. ‘did you leave a message for me?‘ ‘i did. i told mrs. allen to tell you where i had

gone helen was ?o anxious to go and that i would be right back.‘ larry s voice was full of

reproach. ‘oh, larry, i am .70 glad,‘ said iane, her tone indicating the greatness of her relief. ‘i knew it

was all right that ?omething had prevented. i am ?o glad you came in. you must have thought me queer.‘

‘no,’ said larry, appeased, ‘i knew all the time there must be ?ome explanation, only i was feeling ?o miserable.‘

‘and i was miserable, too, larry,‘ she said gently. ‘it seemed a pity that this should happen on our last

night.‘ all her wrath was gone. she was once more the /'ane that larry had always known, gentle, sweet, straightforward,
and on her face the old transfiguring smile. before this change of mood all his irritation vanished. humbled, penitent, and
with a rush of warm affection filling his heart, he said, ‘i should have known you were not to blame,

but you are always right. never once in all these years have you failed me. you always understand a fellow.

do you know i am wondering how i shall ever do without you? have you thought, iane, that tomorrow this

old life of ours together will end?‘ ‘yes, larry.‘ her voice was low, almost a whisper, and in her eyes

an eager light shone. ‘it iust breaks my heart, iane. we have been we are such good friends. if we

had only fallen in love with each other. but that would have spoiled it all. we are not like other

people; we have been such chums, iane.‘ ‘yes, larry,‘ she said again, but the eager light had faded from her

eyes. ‘let s sit a bit, larry,‘ she said. ‘i am tired, and you are tired, too,‘ she added quickly,

‘after your hard day.‘ for a little time they sat in silence together, both shrinking from the parting that they

knew was ?o near, larry gazed at her, wondering to himself that he had ever thought her plain. tonight she

seemed beautiful and very dear to him. next to his mother, was her place in his heart. was this that

he felt for her what they called love? with all his ?oul he wished he could take her in his

arms and say, ‘iane, i love you.‘ but still he knew that his words would not ring true. more than

that, iane would know it too. besides, might not her feeling for him be of the same quality? what could

he say in this hour which he recognised to be a crisis in their lives? sick at heart and oppressed

with his feeling of loneliness and impotence, he could only look at her in speechless misery. then he thought she,

too, was suffering, the same misery was filling her heart. she looked utterly spent and weary. ‘/'ane,‘ he said desperately.
she started. she, too, had been thinking. 'scuddy is in love with helen, macleod is in love with ethel. i

wish to god i had fallen in love with you and you with me. then we would have ?omething to

look forward to. do you know, iane, i am like a boy leaving home? we are going to drift apart.

others will come between us.‘ ‘no, larry,‘ cried iane with quick vehemence. ‘not that. you won t let that come.‘

‘can we help it, /'ane?' then her weariness appealed to him. ‘it is a shame to keep you up. i

have given you a hard day, iane.‘ she shook her head. ‘and there is no use waiting. we can

I

