air force bus. the squealing protest of a combination of dry, unlubricated steel and rust brought his attention back to

the bus as its passenger door swung open. brad turned in time to see a set of bare legs flash

beneath a mid-calf length white skirt when she stepped off the bus. the skirt had a narrow dark blue ribbon

sewed around the hem and was so heavily starched he was sure it would break when it bumped against the

door of the bus. by american standards they were short legs, but they were beautiful. each well developed muscle was

firm and clearly defined to create two shapely meaterpieces. on her small feet the girl wore flat-heeled slippers made of
a soft black leather. as if he had x-ray vision a bit of silken thigh flashed through brad s imagination

when the petite doll-girl stepped down onto the sidewalk. she hesitated for a sliver of time before starting along the
sidewalk toward him. brad burgess wasn t very tall, about 5 7‘ in stocking feet weighing in at a hard

126 pounds, but as the girl approached he began to realize iust how big he was on the island of

okinawa. he studied her as she drew nearer. the girl wasn t quite five feet tall and weighed less than

ninety pounds. those ninety pounds were beautifully arranged. her breasts weren t large, but under the tight fitting bodice of
her starched dress they were perfectly symmetrical and in absolute proportion to the rest of her compact body. involuntarily he
found himself looking up into the most beautiful almond shaped, dark brown eyes he had ever seen. outlined with shiny
black, thick lashes and eyebrows, her eyes grabbed and captured brad in their depths. he watched in admiration when she
walked through the glass doors and across the terminal floor. the white skirt stretched tightly across her beautifully formed backside
and emphasized her gracefully feminine walk. ‘oh, my god, i m in love.‘ brad heard himself say. ‘hey.’ you the

seabee going to naha?‘ he felt the heat of embarrassment flash across his cheeks and knew his ears were glowing

red when he heard the sound of a deep female voice speaking american. he was so engrossed in the girl

that brad hadn t heard the ugly gray, navy six pac pull up to the curb in front of the

air force bus. the driver was hollering through his open window, and brad was certain he had heard his vocal

declaration of love for the beautiful girl. ‘yeah, i am. where in hell have you been?‘ ‘sleeping, man. i ve

had the duty for the last two nights.‘ the driver spoke slowly and matter-of-factly. brad couldn t hear even a

hint of aggression in the driver s voice when he stepped up to the side of the six pac. through

the open window he could see that the driver was dressed in tailor made, but very wrinkled, dungarees. not only

had the dungarees and short sleeved chambray shirt been worked in, they looked as if they had been slept in.

his light brown hair hung down over his forehead partially obscuring his flattened fighter s nose and flashing green eyes.
and he needed a haircut. the driver and brad both turned towards the high pitched voice. she was walking very

fast, almost trotting towards them from the air force bus. dressed in the same uniform as the first petite girl,

but she was most decidedly not petite. she was tall and square. at least two inches taller than brad and

twenty pounds heavier, but the graceful motion of hands and hips were there. her round face had small pock marks
which ruined the image of her soft flawless asian complexion, but they in no way distracted from her beauty. her

eyes, which brad would learn, were pure okinawan not iapanese. they had no hint of an eyelid fold, and were

large, round and a beautiful, soft brown. where have you been, you big beautiful woman?‘ the driver hollered back while
he was hurriedly exiting the 6 pac. ‘i quit the clover and leave noumanoui for good. that place got to

be number ten for me. you won t shack-up with me, larry, then merchant man give me the clap for

five dollar. cheap bastard not want to pay for all night. he say he stay with me all week, until

his ship leave. then after he get me one time he go back to the bar. he never come back,‘

‘i m sorry, kaiko, but i told you not to go with merchant sailors. they re nothing but trouble. ‘i

go to work in snack bar now larry. you come see me? come home with me, okay? you number one

for me larry, come my home, pease.' ‘where are you living, kaiko? kadena?‘ ‘no way, i have big house in

old koza. no gis come anymore so mama-san let me have big house real cheap. ‘okay. what time you get

off work friday night? i won t have the duty this weekend so i ll stay all weekend with you.‘

‘sixteen hundred, larry-san. you meet me on bc street?‘ ‘yeah, but not before nineteen hundred. i ll meet you in

the goya restaurant and buy you some gohon.‘ brad watched and listened to the exchange between these two very ethnically
different people in amazement. neither were fluent in the other s language, but nonetheless they communicated and got their wants
known to the other. ‘what?' brad was still lost in his own thoughts and it took him a second or

two to realize that the seabee was talking to him. ‘the nesan, girl to you. i love every one of

them. larry perkins, i m a builder.‘ the seabee driver proclaimed as he stuck out a work calloused hand. ‘you

re a driver, huh? what mob you out of?‘ perkins rambled on not allowing brad to answer as they shook

hands, ‘i came from mcb 11. there s three or four of us at naha from 17, ‘come on,

