think my boss is going to say when i tell him my load of concrete has evaporated! yelled the concrete

truck driver. not my problem , yelled bull neck. go and get another load and this time don t lose

it!!! the poor concrete truck driver, bruised, shaken and by now speechless got back into his truck and drove off

to get another load of concrete. moron!! yelled bull neck as the concrete truck drove off. the insects had moved

well clear by now in case their laughter could be heard. that was a smart move pearl , said louie.

i hate to think what bull neck will say, let alone his boss, when they discover his truck cab is

full of concrete! i think , said pearl. we will leave it at that for now and come back again

tomorrow. i don t want to be around when bull neck finds out what we have done to his truck

. the next day the insects returned through the quartz about the same time in the morning, strangely enough bull

neck had another truck and his boss was with him this time! most of the concrete had been poured and

the pipe supports were now in place. this was a little disappointing to the insects. so far they hadn t

been able to stop the pro/'ect. with the concrete now poured, bull neck and fred proceeded to drill holes in

the rock that was obstructing the path of the pipeline. the drilled holes were to take the charges that would

be detonated and break up the rock for removal. when the pair had finished drilling the holes in the rock,

bull neck went off and got the 'new' truck and brought in the charges that were to be inserted in

the holes. there were ten in all. detonating cables were carefully attached to the charges. the charges with detonating cables
attached were slid down into the drilled holes in the rock. once the charges were in place, bull neck carefully

checked everything once more. after yesterday we didn t want anything else going wrong, that was for sure! bull neck
moved his truck back out of harm s way then he and fred walked slowly back up the cleared access,

unreeling the detonating wire as they “went. this was all under the watchful eye of bull neck s boss. some

considerable distance away they set up the detonating plunger that would ultimately set the charges off. pearl, louie and lulu
had remembered from the community notice board in the village that the detonation time had been publicly advertised for 11.00
am, it was now 10.15 a.m. bull neck, fred and the boss now waited in their safe position for 11.00

am to arrive. every five minutes they announced over a loud speaker that detonation would be in so many minutes
and to please clear the area. quick , said pearl. we haven t got much time, follow me . the

insects went over to the rock to be detonated. pearl carefully pulled the ten charges back out of the rock

with the help of louie and lulu. once the charges were out of the rock and on the ground, pearl

said. louie and lulu, put five of them in through the front side window of bull neck s truck, make

sure the detonation lines stay connected. the remaining five i am going to put under some of the concrete pipe
supports . what mischief, it was hard to stop laughing. the three mischief makers heard in the distance, fifteen minutes
to blasting, please clear the area . they still had some time left. when the insects had finished the [ob

they took off and flew to where bull neck, his boss and fred were. five minutes to blasting, clear the

area , bull neck yelled into his hand held loud speaker. bull neck s boss turned to bull neck and

said. you had better not stuff it up this time mate or you will be toast! bull neck ignored his

boss and concentrated on the /‘ob in hand. one minute to blasting, please clear the area , yelled bull neck.

a short time later bull neck counted down. ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one, contact! there

was an agonising pause then there was a huge explosion. the shock waves swished through the trees, scaring the birds,
animals and insects into absolute silence. some half minute later there was an echo from the distant hills, that should
do it boss , said bull neck smirking, let s go and see said bull neck s boss, the

insects followed close behind as the three men headed back expecting the rock to have been demolished. the men stopped
in their tracks. five of the pipe supports had been destroyed,’ two were up a tree! worst of all the

new truck, all that was left of it was the tray! the front end was scattered far and wide. my

truck! wailed the boss. bull neck s boss turned and socked bull neck in the face and shouted. you bloody

incompetent idiot, i can t believe it!!! first you fill one truck up with concrete then you blow up this

one. what are you bloody well going to do for your next trickt? i can t take any more! bull

neck s boss was shouting and wringing his hands. fred had taken off by this time; there was no way

he was ever going to come back. bull neck followed fred yelling. the place is spooked! well after that nobody

did come back! the pro/'ect was reconsidered by the council and the pipe was eventually laid under the road to

the village. this was /'ust as the villagers had originally wanted it. our three intrepid insects flew back to the

quartz wall at the bank and through to the tunnel. in the tunnel pearl turned and said. a iob well-done

you two! that was iust incredible said louie and lulu together. you are a genius pearl . that

I’

I

