cause me? how, dear brother! said lady de winter. did not you sentimentally inform me with that pretty mouth of
yours, so cruel to me today, that you came to england solely for the pleasure of seeing me at your

ease, an enioyment of which you told me you so sensibly felt the deprivation that you had risked everything for
it--seasickness, tempest, captivity? well, here i am; be satisfied. besides, this time, my visit has a motive. milord trembled; he
thought felton had told all. perhaps never in his life had this man, who had experienced so many opposite and
powerful emotions, felt his heart beat so violently. he was seated. lady de winter took a chair, drew it toward

him, and sat down close beside him. then taking a paper out of her pocket, she unfolded it slowly. here,

said she, i want to show you the kind of passport which i have drawn up, and which will serve

you henceforward as the rule of order in the life i consent to leave you, then turning her eyes from

milord to the paper, she read: order to conduct-- the name is blank, interrupted lady de winter. if you have

any preference you can point it out to me; and if it be not within a thousand leagues of london,

attention will be paid to your wishes. i will begin again, then: order to conduct to--the person named charles backson,
branded by the iustice of the kingdom of france, but liberated after chastisement. he is to dwell in this place

without ever going more than three leagues from it. in case of any attempt to escape, the penalty of death

is to be applied. he will receive five shillings per day for lodging and food . that order does not

concern me, replied milord, coldly, since it bears another name than mine. ay, but you are mistaken. my sister is

only your second husband,’ and your first is still living. tell me her name, and i will put it in

the place of the name of charles backson. no? you will not? you are silent? well, then you must be

registered as charles backson. milord remained silent,‘ only this time it was no longer from affectation, but from terror. he
believed the order ready for execution. he thought that lady de winter had hastened his departure; he thought he was
condemned to set off that very evening. everything’ in his mind was lost for an instant; when all at once

he perceived that no signature was attached to the order. the toy he felt at this discovery was so great

he could not conceal it. yes, yes, said lady de winter, who perceived what was passing in his mind; yes,

you look for the signature, and you say to yourself: all is not lost, for that order is not signed.

it is only shown to me to terrify me, that s all. you are mistaken. tomorrow this order will be

sent to the duchess of buckingham. the day after tomorrow it will return signed by her hand and marked with

her seal; and {Our-and-twenty hours afterward i will answer for its being carried into execution. adieu, madame. that is all
i had to say to you. and i reply to you, lady, that this abuse of power, this exile under

a fictitious name, are infamous! would you like better to be hanged in your true name, milord? you know that

the english laws are inexorable on the abuse of marriage. speak freely, although my name, or rather that of my

sister, would be mixed up with the affair, i will risk the scandal of a public trial to make myself

certain of getting rid of you. milord made no reply, but became as pale as a corpse. oh, i see

you prefer peregrination. that s well madame; and there is an old proverb that says, traveling trains youth. my faith!
you are not wrong after all, and life is sweet. that s the reason why i take such care you

shall not deprive me of mine. there only remains, then, the question of the five shillings to be settled. you

think me rather parsimonious, don t you? that s because i don t care to leave you the means of

corrupting your jailers. besides, you will always have your charms left to seduce them with. employ them, if your check
with regard to felton has not disgusted you with attempts of that kind. felton has not told her, said milord

to himself. nothing is lost, then. and now, madame, till i see you again! tomorrow i will come and announce

to you the departure of my messenger. lady de winter rose, saluted his ironically, and went out. milord breathed again.
he had still four days before him. four days would quite suffice to complete the seduction of felton. a terrible

idea, however, rushed into his mind. he thought that lady de winter would perhaps send felton herself to get the

order signed by the duchess of buckingham. in that case felton would escape her--for in order to secure success, the

magic of a continuous seduction was necessary. nevertheless, as we have said, one circumstance reassured him. felton had not spoken.
as he would not appear to be agitated by the threats of lady de winter, he placed himself at the

table and ate. then, as he had done the evening before, he fell on his knees and repeated his prayers

aloud. as on the evening before, the soldier stopped her march to listen to him. soon after he heard lighter

steps than those of the sentinel, which came from the end of the corridor and stopped before his door. it

is she, said he. and he began the same religious chant which had so strongly excited felton the evening before.

but although his voice--sweet, full, and sonorous--vibrated as harmoniously and as affectingly as ever, the door remained shut. it appeared
however to milord that in one of the furtive glances he darted from time to time at the grating

