whole of most authors, and not the least of him. i am sure that his friends who reverenced his memory had good warrant and express instructions to publish

this complete edition--- very possibly it was arranged before his lamented end. yet, speaking generally, i would say that an author was best served by being very carefully
pruned before being exposed to the winds of time. let every weak twig, every immature shoot be shorn away, and nothing but strong, sturdy, well-seasoned branches left. so
shall the whole tree stand strong for years to come. how false an impression of the true stevenson would our critical grandchild acquire if he chanced to pick

down any one of half a dozen of these volumes! as we watched his hand stray down the rank, how we would pray that it might alight upon

the ones we love, on the ‘new arabian nights‘ ‘the ebb-tide,‘ ‘the wrecker,‘ ‘-kidnapped,‘ or ‘treasure island.‘ these can surely never lose their charm. what noble books of
their class are those last, ‘kidnapped‘ and ‘treasure island‘! both, as you see, shining forth upon my lower shelf. ‘treasure island‘ is the better story, while i could

imagine that ‘kidnap,Ded‘ might have the more permanent value as being an excellent and graphic sketch of the state of the highlands after the last iacobite insurrection. each
contains one novel and admirable character, alan breck in the one, and long iohn in the other. surely iohn silver, with his face the size of a ham,

and his little gleaming eyes like crumbs of glass in the centre of it, is the king of all seafaring desperadoes. observe how the strong effect is produced

in his case: seldom by direct assertion on the part of the story-teller, but usually by comparison, innuendo, or indirect reference. the obiectionable billy bones is haunted by
the dread of ‘a seafaring man with one leg.‘ captain flint, we are told, was a brave man; ‘ he was afraid of none, not he, only silver---silver

was that genteel.‘ or, again, where iohn himself says, ‘there was some that was feared of pew, and some that was feared of flint; but flint his own

self was feared of me. feared he was, and proud. they was the roughest crew afloat was flint s. the devil himself would have been feared to :0

to sea with them. well, now, i will tell you. i m not a boasting man, and you seen yourself how easy i keep company; but when i

was quartermaster, lambs wasn t the word for flint s old buccaneers.‘ so, by a touch here and a hint there, there grows upon us the individuality of

the smooth-tongued, ruthless, masterful, one-legged devil. he is to us not a creation of fiction, but an organic living reality with whom we have come in contact; such

is the effect of the fine suggestive strokes with which he is drawn. and the buccaneers themselves, how simple and yet how effective are the little touches which

indicate their ways of thinking and of acting, ‘i want to go in that cabin, i do,’ i want their pickles and wine and that.‘ ‘now, if you

had sailed along o bill you wouldn t have stood there to be spoke twice---not you. that was never bill s way, not the way of sich as

sailed with him.‘ scott s buccaneers in ‘the pirate‘ are admirable, but they lack something human which we find here. it will be long before iohn silver loses

his place in sea fiction, ‘and you may lay to that.‘ stevenson was deeply influenced by meredith, and even in these books the influence of the master is

apparent. there is the apt use of an occasional archaic or unusual word, the short, strong descriptions, the striking metaphors, the somewhat staccato fashion of speech. yet, in
spite of this flavour, they have quite individuality enough to constitute a school of their own. their faults, or rather perhaps their limitations, lie never in the execution,
but entirely in the original conception. they picture only one side of life, and that a strange and exceptional one. there is no female interest. we feel that

it is an apotheosis of the boy-story---the penny number of our youth in excelsis. but it is all so good, so fresh, so picturesque, that, however limited its

scope, it still retains a definite and well-assured place in literature. there is no reason why ‘treasure island‘ should not be to the rising generation of the twenty-first
century what ‘robinson crusoe‘ has been to that of the nineteenth. the balance of probability is all in that direction. the modern masculine novel, dealing almost exclusively with
the rougher, more stirring side of life, with the obiective rather than the subiective, marks the reaction against the abuse of love in fiction. this one phase of

life in its orthodox aspect, and ending in the conventional marriage, has been so hackneyed and worn to a shadow, that it is not to be wondered at

that there is a tendency sometimes to swing to the other extreme, and to give it less than its fair share in the affairs of men. in

