church the following sunday. maybe the lord was going to perform a miracle or maybe gene was having second thoughts
about his future home, heaven or hell. mike knew, besides having a son, gene was wanting at least three or

four more children. it may be that he wanted his children to have a personal relationship with the creator of

the universe, even if he did not choose that for himself, mike could only pray, but as you will see,

gene s children followed their parents and went down a road of destruction. mike s children, on the other hand,
were raised in a god fearing home where the lord was worshiped. ‘gene, everything that you believed, you learned from
your father. at this point, you were teaching those very same things to your children. they were going down that
same path of destruction iust as you did. you are responsible for your children. you should have raised them in
the knowledge of me. i put one verse in mike s mind that would stay with him and his children,

so that his grandchildren would also be raised in a god-fearing home, that verse is found in proverbs 22:6 -

train up a Child in the way he should go and, when he is old, he will not depart from

it. you are the one that is responsible for your children going to hell, no one else can be held

accountable. i would have given you a verse to strengthen your family, also.‘ ‘lord, there is nothing i can say,

i am guilty. i wish there was some way that my children could be reached before they come to this

place of torment.‘ ‘mike spoke to you for years about accepting and you refused. mike s children will be as

close to your children as you and mike were. his children will tell your children about heaven and hell and

they will be iust like you. they will refuse, also. but there will be one that will become so destitute,

that he will realize that he has to rely on someone else other than himself. he will drop to his

knees and will ask for me to come into his life. upon that request, i will enter his heart and

i will call him my son and he will call me his father. abba father,‘ to the amazement of mike

and mary iane, they also had their second son the very same month that gene and roxann had their child.

some might say it was a coincidence, but it was very, very far from coincidence. god had planned out the

children that both families were going to have. he wanted gene to see the difference between a family that does
not want to have anything to do with him and a family that is god-center. if gene saw the difference,

maybe he would open his heart and get saved and lead his entire family to the lord. each time either

roxann or mary iane became pregnant, the other one would become pregnant, also. after their fifth child, both couples decided
that was enough. mike and gene went to see a doctor about having a vasectomy. gene seemed to be a

good husband and he would do anything for any of his friends. the only thing that neither his family nor

his friends knew about was his desire for women. after his third child, gene started to have one affair after
another. now that he was going to have a vasectomy, he did not have to worry about one of his

girl friend s claiming that he was the father of her baby. now gene could return to doing as he

pleased, as he always had before, but now with complete ease of mind knowing he would not get caught with

an illegitimate child. that could no longer happen. after the vasectomy, gene s affairs became hot and heavy. not only
was he having affairs with many of the women in his office, but he was also looking for, and finding,

very young women that wanted older men. most of these younger women were in their early twenties. each time a
love-making session was over, he always had a bad feeling inside. he always wanted to say it was indigestion or
something like that, but it was the lord that was making his conscience feel bad for his sin, even if

a person does not believe in god and they believe they can do anything they want, they still have a

conscience and when they commit sin, their conscience will react to the things that are wrong, gene was no different
than any other man. every time he committed sin, gene felt bad. once by mistake, or so gene said it

was a mistake, he told mike about the feeling he had when he did something that the bible said was

a sin. mike did not come out and say what it was. he wanted gene to ask for advice, or

to ask if mike could give an answer for the bad feeling. after explaining everything, he asked mike what he
thought could be the problem. it was at that time that mike explained to gene about the three inner beings

of a man. he told him of the soul, spirit, and conscience, after mike explained each in great detail, gene

thanked mike and left, on his trip home, he said to himself, ‘i sure made a mistake asking mike for

help. i should have known that he was going to put religion into his answer.‘ each and every time he

had an affair, the Words of mike kept ringing in his ear about his conscience, the lord was bothering gene

s conscience so badly that it would take forever for him to get to sleep. the sleep he did have

was not the same kind of sleep he had other nights. the kind of sleep he had after an affair

was the kind of sleep that left you tired. it was a restless type of sleep. on the nights

