iamie at the end of this day. and she also remembered how she had felt on those occasions; how she

would come home feeling weary and saddened and her governess would hold her while she cried copious tears into her
apron. evelyn would always ask her why so many little children had to die and she would answer that only

god knew how to answer that. and then evelyn would ask her why didn t she, herself, and elizabeth become

sick, and louise would always answer that they came from good, strong stock. but evelyn wondered about this because if
that were true then why had their mother died at such a young age? but louise had an answer for

that question too; she would always look into evelyn s eyes and say, your mother loved your father so much

that she didn t heed the dreams. as evelyn continued to worry over iamie, she also worried over the fact

that she hadn t had any dreams concerning her future with him. did that mean that there wouldn t be

any future? did that mean that he was going to die this day? dear god, she hoped not! iamie s

breathing changed slightly,‘ she noticed that it seemed to be coming quicker, evelyn could even see the pulse in his
neck, throbbing faster than her own heartbeat. he was becoming restless, moving his head back and forth on the pillow
and squirming under the quilts. she wished she knew what she could do for him to ease his discomfort; she

wished she was more knowledgeable of medicines and simples. but she and elizabeth had been blessed with excellent health and
other than the occasional cold or stomachache, neither one of them had ever needed any medical attention. suddenly iamie threw
all the covers off of him, startling her, and shocking her! he was naked, naked as a dickey bird! no

nightshirt, no smallclothes, no nothing! she felt her own face flush with heat as she stared quite overtly. she knew
she shouldn t; she knew it was quite inappropriate for her to be eyeing his privy parts. she was an

innocent maiden, for heaven s sake; and he was extremely ill and vulnerable, but oh, il est magnifique! she thought
shamelessly, but then sense and detachment returned, she was here to care for him, not to ogle him! with gentle
hands she drew the quilt back over iamie s lower body, settling the top edge neatly at his chest. he

must have felt the weight because he opened his heavy-lidded eyes and looked at her. she smiled and said, ‘you

threw the covers off.‘ ‘so hot in here.‘ he whispered. apparently he had been too groggy to notice that he

had iust exposed his naked body to her or he iust didn t care. ‘i ll open the window.‘ she

said, believing fresh air would do him good. she stood up, but then had second thoughts and she turned back

to him. ‘or would you rather i not open it?‘ she knew how some people believed that windows should be

kept firmly shut against deadly miasmas and while she had been living in london she had understood this. but even
in london when the breeze was blowing enough to clear the air, evelyn s governess would open all the windows

in hers and ﬁlizabeth s bedchambers and louise would tell them stories of the beautiful diane de poitiers, king henri

ii s mistress who believed in daily bathing and riding out in the fresh air even morning, evelyn imagined that

the air here in virginia was as fresh and clean as the air had been in the royal forests of

france and didn t believe it carried any disease. iamie nodded imperceptibly. ‘open it,‘ he whispered, closing his eyes, he
sighed and seemed to sink deeper into the mattress and for a short, frightening moment she thought he had died.

but in the next moment his chest rose with his next breath and she almost swooned in relief. quickly, she

turned and scurried across the room to open the window. robert returned at that moment and evelyn breathed a sigh
of relief. he would know what to do and in fact he was carrying a tray with two tankards, one

small pitcher and a bowl with a hunk of brown bread in it. ‘how is he?‘ he asked, his attention

focused on his brother. ‘worse, i think.‘ evelyn answered, returning to iamie s side and close to robert, but not

that close that she was in his way. she Wanted to see what he had brought for iamie to drink

and how he cared for him, as iamie s wife she knew she would be the one to take care

of iamie during any future bouts of the intermittent fever. iamie appeared to be sleeping but opened his eyes as
robert moved closer. ‘you could ask me.‘ he said, sounding annoyed. he hated it when people talked about him as

if he weren t right there in front of them. and that had happened a lot in the past whenever

he had lain ill. he pushed the covers down again, baring his upper body, but stopped at his waist. ‘all

right.‘ robert said good-naturedly, ignoring iamie s tone. he placed the tray down on the floor next to the trundle
bed, then sat back on his heels. he flashed iamie a cheeky grin as he inquired, ‘so, how are you,

brother mine?‘ 'i feel like shit.‘ iamie grumbled. robert burst out laughing. his bark of laughter was rather loud in
the quiet room. and despite her worry for iamie, evelyn nearly burst out laughing too: she had to clap her

hands over her mouth to stop herself. poor iamie, he sounded so miserable and she felt terribly sorry for him,

but continued to hide a smile behind her hand. ‘you look worse.‘ robert chuckled, but then he felt iamie s

neck with the back of his hand and quickly sobered. ‘my god, you re burning up! i ve brought

