the announcer s desk. he picked it up, glanced at it, then said ‘this is a special news flash. a

small cargo boat has gone missing, it was sailing from london to barrow in furness. it has not arrived at

its destination and no trace if it has been found. it did not send any distress messages. the ship is

called whirlwind , it was carrying spare parts for nuclear submarines. wait a moment.‘ as he spoke, anohure piece of
paper was put in front of him. he read it through, and then, looking very grave, said. ‘this message has

been given to us, and it says that the ship has been hiiacked, and we have a demand for ten

million pounds for its safe return. the terrorists, whoever they are also say that they have a weapon that controls
minds within a 20 miles range, so nobody can approach them. they say it will be switched on if any

action is taken against them. the ransom must be paid within two days. details of how it is to be

paid will follow, please do not panic, we will keep you informed with any further developments as they come in‘
as his voice droned on, robin nudged robina, and then went out. robina followed, and when they were alone in

the garden robin said. ‘i bet that the ship we saw hidden in the cove is the one that has

been hiiacked‘. ‘how can we be sure?‘ asked robina, worried that they could make a terrible mistake, and cause the
device to be switched on. ‘we ll go tonight when it s dark, and its bound to have a name

painted on it. if it is the ship, we can call rhes on the medallion, and he can save the

people,‘ replied robin. iust as they returned to the house, they heard lofty tell amy that they were going out,

and would be late back. after they had gone, the twins watched television until it was dark. with a yawn

and a stretch, robin pretended that he was tired, and told mohure that he was going to bed. robina waited

a few moments, then followed. as she went up stairs the telephone rang, she heard the murmur of voices, and

as she heard the phone being put down. mohure called up to say that she and amy were iust going

down the road to see a friend who needed help with some curtains she was making, and they would be

back later. no sooner had the door shut, than the twins were on the landing. ‘what a wonderful opportunity‘ said
robin, ‘we can go to the cove, check on the ship s name, and be back before mohure and amy

come home.‘ they grabbed torches, iumped onto their bikes and tore off to the cliffs over the cove. when they
reached the path down to the ship, they could show no lights, because there might be a look out, so

they picked their way very carefully down the steep path, stopping when a cloud covered the moon, knowing that a
slip would send them over the edge to a certain death on the rocks far beneath their feet. after a

time that seemed an age, but was only a few moments, the twins reached the bottom of the path, and

stood safely on the rocks, and in front of them loomed the black sharpe of the ship. the netting hung

from the masts, looking large in the moonlight. robin whispered that he would look for the name on one end,
while robina looked on the ohure. that way they would save precious time. robina nodded, and then suggested that they
meet again in five minutes, at the same place. robina walked slowly along with iust a flash of her torch

now and then, between her fingers, to show her the way. she found the end of the netting, and lifted

it up. inside the net she saw the ship s side, and as she shone her torch up. the name

was not quite in view. she was iust about to step back to where she could read it, when a

hard hand came from behind her and grabbed the torch. anohure hand fastened across her mouth. she tried to scream,
but couldn t make a sound. ‘what have we here?‘ asked a harsh voice from behind her. without being given

a chance to say anything, she was dragged along the rocks to the gangway that led up to the deck.

how she struggled. she kicked and tried to get loose, but it was no use. at last she managed to

bite the hand that was over her mouth, and as it was ierked aside, she screamed as loud as she

could. the man holding her let out a curse, and hit her hard on the side of the head. ‘that

will teach you not to bite‘. he said angrily as he dragged her to the foot af the gangway. robin

had heard her scream, and appeared out of the darkness like a wild thing. he took the man by surprising

and had almost got robina away, when the man grabbed him by the hair. the noise had alarmed the ohure

villains on the ship, and it only took a few seconds for them to come and help. the twins were

bundled up the gangway and onto the ship, through a door, and into a brightly lit cabin. once they were

in the room, the door was slammed shut behind them, and they saw that there was no escape. as they

stood there, panting, they saw, sitting in a chair, smoking his pipe, the older man who had shouted at charlie

at the field where the hang gliders were. for a moment the twins stared at the villain seated in front

of them. charlie, the young pilot, moved as if to step forward, but as he did so, footsteps clattered on

the deck outside, and the door crashed open. charlie stood still, and the twins spun round, alarmed to see

