great deal about both life and death. let s now take a look at what god, our creator, says about

life and death in his inspired word, the bible. you may be both surprised and challenged as you discover the

truth about what happens after death.-' the wondrous gift of life to understand death, we need to first consider: what

is life? the world s greatest thinkers, including the greek philo?ophers plato, aristotle and ?ocrates, have struggled with this question.
scientists and theologians have dedicated lifetimes to trying to find the keys that unlock the mystery of human existence. but
only the one who created life in the first place can supply the answers we ?o desperately need. we must

look at the very beginning of life to understand it. religion, philo?ophy and science acknowledge that physical life had a
beginning. ?ome believe that life evolved over millennia. but the bible reveals a god who boldly claims that he is

the creator of all life and that he created human life for a tremendous purpose. through his word, god gives

us his answers to life s most important questions. why human beings differ from animals much of humanity is familiar

with the account in genesis, the first book of the bible. genesis simply means ‘beginning‘ or ‘origin.‘ in genesis god

reveals the origin of the forms of life we find on planet earth. notice what god says about human life

in genesis 1:26: ‘let us make man in our image, according to our likeness; let them have dominion over the

fish of the sea, over the birds of the air, and over the cattle, over all the earth and over

every creeping thing that creeps on the earth‘ {emphasis added throughout). god intended that other forms of life be subject

to man as part of an extraordinary higher purpose for man. only mankind was created in god s very imagea

designation that applies to no other part of his creation. human beings are unique among god s physical creation in

their godlike abilities to make decisions, plan and create. far beyond providing us with animallike instinct, god created within us
intellect, selfawareness, the capacity to learn, rea?on, communicate and produce. human brains are physically quite similar to ?ome animal brains,
yet people have vastly higher abilities. the bible reveals that the difference between the human mind and the animal brain

is the spiritual essence god included in the makeup of human beings: ‘for what man knows the things of a

man except [by] the spirit of the man which is in him?‘ (1 corinthians 2:11; see al?o /'ob 32:8; zechariah

72:1). ?omething is still missing in human beings paul refers to the ‘spirit of the man‘ as that which makes

people intellectually superior to animals. it separates us from other physical creatures, allowing us to know‘the things of a man,‘
to think and understand on a much higher plane. we were created to possess certain intellectual capacities similar to those

of the creator himself {genesis 1:26), enabling us to develop skills in mathematics and science, invent written languages, build great
civilizations, learn from the past and plan for the future. when god breathed the ‘breath of life‘ into the first

man adam (genesis 2:7), he gave him more than physical existence. god imparted to adam that spiritual and intellectual essence
that gives mankind the remarkable capacities of the human mind. but the apostle paul reveals that ?omething important is still
lacking: '?o al?o no one comprehends what is truly god s except [by] the spirit of god‘ (1 corinthians 2:11,

new revised standard version}. here paul is speaking of another spirit, the spirit of god. he continues, ‘now we have

received not the spirit of the world, but the spirit that is from god, .’o that we may understand the

gifts bestowed on us by god‘ {verse 12, nrsv}. spiritual understanding that surpasses our normal human intellect comes only through
the extra help, influence and power of god 5 holy spirit. ‘those who are unspiritual,‘ paul adds, ‘do not receive

the gifts of god s spirit, for they are foolishness to them, and they are unable to understand them because

they are spiritually discerned‘ (verse 14, nrsv}. we will see that this spiritual link with god is vital in coming

to know and experience the purpose of life. human life created for a higher purpose compared with plant and animal

life, human beings are created by god with a spiritual dimension for a much higher purpose, several scriptures reveal that

the rea?on for human life is preparation for an infinitely higher level of existence, which includes immortal spirit life, god
created us with the intent that we accept his gift of salvation through Jesus christ and live forever: ‘for god

?o loved the world that he gave his only begotten .’on, that whoever believes in him should not perish but

have everlasting life‘ {iohn 3:76}. iesus stated in prayer to god the father regarding himself, ‘you have given him authority
over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as you have given him‘ (john 17:2), god

promises to give ‘eternal life to those who by patient continuance in doing good seek for glory, honor, and immortality‘
{romans 2:67}. We have the ‘hope of eternal life which god, who cannot lie, promised before time began‘ {titus 1:2}.

again, this is part of the very rea?on for human lifethat we may ultimately receive eternal life. summary god is

the creator and sustainer of life. he created human life on a level different from that of plants and animals

to fulfill a far greater purpose. our lives consist of relationships, goals and experiences that at times are enjoyable, at

times difficult. but the ultimate purpose of our lives greatly exceeds merely meeting the needs and fulfilling the pleasures of
our daily circumstances. {to learn more about the incredible purpose of human life, the ultimate rea?on for why you exist,

be sure to read the booklet what is your destiny?. J now that we have briefly Considered the meaning

