stand. 30:13 8ut if her husband make them null and void in the day that he heareth them, then whatsoever

proceeded out of her lips, whether it were her vows, or the bond of her soul, shall not stand: her

husband hath made them void; and the Lord will forgive her. 30:14 Every vow, and every binding oath to afflict
the soul, her husband may let it stand, or her husband may make it void. 30:15 But if her husband

altogether hold his peace at her from day to day, then he causeth all her vows to stand, or all

her bonds, which are upon her; he hath let them stand, because he held his peace at her in the

day that he heard them. 30:16 But if he shall make them null and void after that he hath heard

them, then he shall bear her iniquity. 30:17 These are the statutes, which the Lord commanded Moses, between a man
and his wife, between a father and his daughter, being in her youth, in her father s house. -- Numbers

- Chapter 030 -- .7 Numbers - Chapter 031 31:1 And the Lord spoke unto Moses, saying: 31:2 Avenge the

Children of ’israel of the Midianites; afterward shalt thou be gathered unto thy people. 31:3 And Moses spoke unto the
people, saying: Arm ye men from among you for the war, that they may go against Midian, to execute the

Lord 8' vengeance on Midian. 31:4 Of every tribe a thousand, throughout all the tribes of Vsrael, shall ye send

to the war. 31:5 So there were delivered, out of the thousands of ‘Israel, a thousand of every tribe, twelve

thousand armed for war. 31:6 And Moses sent them, a thousand of every tribe, to the war, them and Phinehas

the son of Eleazar the priest, to the war, with the holy vessels and the trumpets for the alarm in

his hand. 31:7 And they warred against Midian, as the Lord commanded Moses: and they slew every male. 31:8 And
they slew the kings of Midian with the rest of their slain: Evi, and Rekem, and Zur, and Hur, and

Reba, the five kings of Midian; Balaam also the son of Bear they slew with the sword. 31:9 And the

Children of israel took captive the women of Midian and their little ones; and all their cattle, and all their

flocks, and all their goods, they took for a prey. 31:10 .7 Numbers - Chapter 031 And all their cities

in the places wherein they dwelt, and all their encampments, they burnt with fire. 31:11 And they took all the

spoil, and all the prey, both of man and of beast. 31:12 And they brought the captives, and the prey,

and the spoil, unto Moses, and unto Eleazar the priest, and unto the congregation of the children of Vsrael, unto
the camp, unto the plains of Moab, which are by the 9ordan at Fericho. 31:13 And Moses, and Eleazar the

priest, and all the princes of the congregation, went forth to meet them without the camp. 31:14 And Moses was
wroth with the officers of the host, the captains of thousands and the captains of hundreds, who came from the
service of the war. 31:15 And Moses said unto them: Have ye saved all the women alive? 31:16 Behold, these

caused the children of ‘7srael, through the counsel of Balaam, to revolt so as to break faith with the Lord

in the matter of Peor, and so the plague was among the congregation of the Lord. 37:17 Now therefore kill

every male among the little ones, and kill every woman that hath known man by lying with him, 31:18 But

all the women children, that have not known man by lying with him, keep alive for yourselves. 31:19 And encamp
ye without the camp seven days: whosoever hath killed any person, and whosoever hath touched any slain, purify yourselves on
the third day and on the seventh day, ye and your captives. ? Numbers - Chapter 031 31:20 And as

to every garment, and all that is made of skin, and all work of goats hair, and all things made

of wood, ye shall purify. 31:21 And Eleazar the priest said unto the men of war that went to the

battle: This is the statute of the law which the Lord hath commanded Moses: 31:22 Howbeit the gold, and the

silver, the brass, the iron, the tin, and the lead, 31:23 every thing that may abide the fire, ye shall

make to go through the fire, and it shall be clean; nevertheless it shall be purified with the water of

sprinkling; and all that abideth not the fire ye shall make to go through the water. 31:24 And ye shall

wash your clothes on the seventh day, and ye shall be clean, and afterward ye may come into the camp.

31:25 And the Lord spoke unto Moses, saying: 31:26 Take the sum of the prey that was taken, both of

man and of beast, thou, and Eleazar the priest, and the heads of the fathers houses of the congregation; 31:27

and divide the prey into two parts: between the men skilled in war, that went out to battle, and all

the congregation: 31:28 and levy a tribute unto the Lord of the men of war that went out to battle:

one soul of five hundred, both of the persons, and of the beeves, and of the asses, and of the

flocks; 31:29 take it of their half, and give it unto Eleazar the priest, as a portion set apart for

the Lord. 31:30 .7 Numbers - Chapter 031 And of the children of ‘Israel s half, thou shalt take one

drawn out of every fifty, of the persons, of the beeves, of the asses, and of the flocks, even of

all the cattle, and give them unto the Levites, that keep the charge of the tabernacle of the Lord. 31:31

And Moses and Eleazar the priest did as the Lord commanded Moses. 31:32 Now the prey, over and above the

booty which the men of War took, was six hundred thousand and seventy thousand and five thousand sheep, 31:33 and
threescore and twelve thousand beeves, 31:34 and threescore and one thousand asses, 31:35 and thirty and two thousand persons in
all, of the women that had not known man by lying with him. 31:36 And the half, which was the

portion of them that went out to war, was in number three hundred thousand and thirty thousand and seven thousand
and five hundred sheep. 31:37 And the Lord S tribute of the sheep was six hundred and threescore and

