was so much to look at and so many boats to wave to, it wasn t till they had actually

got to the statue of liberty that anna-rose remembered her £70 and the dollars. the young man was saying how

much the statue of liberty had cost, and the word dollars made anna-rose turn with a iump to mr. twist.

‘oh_' ghe exclaimed, clutching at her chamois leather bag where it very visibly bulged out beneath her waistband, ‘i forgot-i
must get change. and how much do you think we ought to tip the stewardess? i ve never tipped anybody

yet ever, and i wish-i wish i hadn t to.‘ she got quite red. it seemed to her dreadful to

offer money to someone so much older than herself and who till almost that very morning had treated her and
anna-felicitas like the naughtiest of tiresome children. surely she would be most offended at being tipped by people such years
younger than herself? mr. twist thought not. ‘a dollar,‘ said the young man. ‘one dollar. that s the figure. not

a cent more, or you girls ll get inflating prices and wall street ll bust up.‘ anna-rose, not heeding him

and clutching nervously the place where her bag was, told mr. twist that the stewardess hadn t seemed to mind

them quite so much last night, and still less that morning, and perhaps some little memento-something that wasn t money-
‘give her those caps of yours,‘ said the young man, bursting into hilarity,’ but indeed it wasn t his fault

that he was a low young man. mr. twist, shutting him out of the conversation by interposing a shoulder, told

anna-rose he had noticed stewardesses, and also stewards, softened when iourneys drew near their end, but that it didn t
mean they wanted mementos. they wanted money; and he would do the tipping for her if she liked. anna-rose lumped

at it. this tipping of the stewardess had haunted her at intervals throughout the iourney whenever she woke up at

night. she felt that, not having yet in her life tipped anybody, it was very hard that she couldn t

begin with somebody more her own size. ‘then if you don t mind coming behind the funnel,‘ she said, ‘i

can give you my £5 notes, and perhaps you would get them changed for me and deduct what you think

the stewardess ought to have.‘ mr. twist, and also anna-felicitas, who wasn t allowed to stay behind with the exuberant
young man though she was quite unconscious of his presence, went with anna-rose behind the funnel, where after a great
deal of private fumbling, her back turned to them, she produced the two much-crumpled £5 notes. ‘the steward ought to
have something too,‘ said mr. twist. ‘oh, i d be glad if you d do him as well,‘ said anna-rose

eagerly. ‘i don t think i could offer him a tip. he has been so fatherly to us. and imagine

offering to tip one s father.‘ mr. twist laughed, and said she would get over this feeling in time, he

promised to do what was right, and to make it clear that the tips he bestowed were twinkler tips; and

presently he came back with messages of thanks from the tipped-such polite ones from the stewardess that the twins were
astonished-and gave anna-rose a packet of very dirty-looking slices of green paper, which were dollar bills, he said, besides a
variety of strange coins which he spread out on a ledge and explained to her. ‘the exchange was favourable to

you to-day,‘ said mr. twist, counting out the money. ‘how nice of it,‘ said anna-rose politely. ‘did you keep your

eye on its variations?‘ she added a little loudly, with a view to rousing respect in anna-felicitas who was lounging

against a seat and showing a total absence of every kind of appropriate emotion. ‘certainly,’ said mr. twist after a

slight pause. ‘i kept both my eyes on all of them.‘ mr. twist had, it appeared, presented the steward and

stewardess each with a dollar on behalf of the misses twinkler, but because the exchange was so favourable this had

made no difference to the £5 notes. reducing each £5 note into german marks, which was the way the twinklers,

in spite of :1 Via’ in england, still dealt in their heads with money before they could get a clear

idea of it, there would have been two hundred marks.’ and as it took, roughly, four marks to make a

dollar, the two hundred marks would have to be divided by four; which, leaving aside that extra complication of variations
in the exchange, and regarding the exchange for a moment and for purposes of simplification as keeping quiet for a

bit and resting, should produce, also roughly, said anna-rose a little out of breath as she got to the end

of her calculation, fifty dollars. ‘correct,‘ said mr. twist, who had listened with respectful attention. ‘here they are.‘ ‘i said
roughly,‘ said anna-rose. ‘it can t be exactly fifty dollars. the tips anyhow would alter that.‘ ‘yes, but you forget

the exchange.‘ anna-rose was silent. she didn t want to go into that before anna-felicitas. of the two, she was

supposed to be the least bad at sums, their mother had put it that Way, refusing to say, as anna-rose

industriously tried to trap her into saying, that she was the better of the two. but even so, the difference

entitled her to authority on the sub/'ect with anna-felicitas, and by dint of doing all her calculations roughly, as she

was careful to describe her method, she allowed room for withdrawal and escape where otherwise the inflexibility of figures might
have caught her tight and held her down while anna-felicitas looked on and was unable to respect her. evidently the
exchange was something beneficent, she decided to refoice in it in silence, accept whatever it did, and refrain from asking
questions. ‘so i did. of course. the exchange,‘ she said, after a little. she gathered up the dollar bills

