him somehow twice as pitiful. his big atlas, from which papers projected, seemed forgotten by his side. so he sat
for a long time, and neither he nor letty moved or spoke. but they were in the same shadow. they

found great comfort in one another. they had not been so comforted before since their losses came upon them, it
was mr. britling who broke silence. and when he drew his hands down from his face and spoke, he said

one of the most amazing and unexpected things she had ever heard in her life. ‘the only possible government in
albania,‘ he said, looking steadfastly before him down the hill-side, ‘is a group of republican cantons after the swiss pattern.
i can see no other solution that is not offensive to god. it does not matter in the least what

we owe to serbia or what we owe to italy. we have got to set this world on a different

footing. we have got to set up the world at last -- on justice and reason.‘ then, after a pause,

‘the treaty of bucharest was an evil treaty. it must be undone. whatever this german king of bulgaria does, that
treaty must be undone and the bulgarians united again into one people. they must have themselves, whatever punishment they deserve,
they must have nothing more, whatever reward they win.‘ she could not believe her ears. ‘after this precious blood, after
this precious blood, if we leave one plot of wickedness or cruelty in the world -- ‘ and therewith he

began to lecture letty on the importance of international politics -- to every one. how he and she and every

one must understand, however hard it was to understand. ‘no life is safe, no happiness is safe, there is no

chance of bettering life until we have made an end to all that causes war.... ‘we have to put an

end to the folly and vanity of kings, and to any people ruling any people but themselves. there is no

convenience, there is no iustice in any people ruling any people but themselves; the ruling of men by others, who
have not their creeds and their languages and their ignorances and preiudices, that is the fundamental folly that has killed
teddy and hugh -- and these millions. to end that folly is as much our duty and business as telling

the truth or earning a living....‘ ‘but how can you alter it?‘ he held out a finger at her. ‘men

may alter anything if they have motive enough and faith enough.‘ he indicated the atlas beside him. ‘here i am
planning the real map of the world,‘ he said. ‘every sort of district that has a character of its own

must have its own rule; and the great republic of the united states of the world must keep the federal

peace between them all. that s the plain sense of life; the federal world-republic. why do we bother ourselves with
loyalties to any other government but that? it needs only that sufficient men should say it, and that republic would
be here now. why have we loitered so long -- until these tragic punishments come? we have to map the

world out into its states, and plan its government and the way of its tolerations.' ‘and you think it will

come?‘ ‘it will come.‘ ‘and you believe that men will listen to such schemes?‘ said letty. mr. britling, with his

eyes far away over the hills, seemed to think. ‘yes,‘ he said, ‘not perhaps to-day -- not steadily, but kings

and empires die; great ideas, once they are born, can never die again. in the end this world-republic, this sane
government of the world, is as certain as the sunset. only,,,_' he sighed, and turned over a page of his

atlas blindly. ‘only we want it soon. the world is weary of this bloodshed, weary of all this weeping, of

this wasting of substance and this killing of sons and lovers. we want it soon, and to have it soon

we must work to bring it about. we must give our lives. what is left of our lives.... ‘that is

what you and i must do, letty. what else is there left for us to do?... i will write of

nothing else, i will think of nothing else now but of safety and order. so that all these dear dead

-- not one of them but will have brought the great days of peace and man s real beginning nearer,

and these cruel things that make men whimper like children, that break down bright lives into despair and kill youth
at the very moment when it puts out its clean hands to take hold of life -- these cruelties, these

abominations of confusion, shall cease from the earth forever.‘ letty regarded him, frowning, and with her chin between her fists....
‘but do you really believe,‘ said letty, ‘that things can be better than they are?‘ ‘but -- yes!‘ said mr.

britling. ‘i don t,‘ said letty. ‘the world is cruel. it is just cruel. so it will always be.‘ ‘it

need not be cruel,‘ said mr. britling. ‘it is just a place of cruel things. it is all set with

knives. it is full of diseases and accidents. as for god -- either there is no god or he is

an idiot. he is a slobbering idiot. he is like some idiot who pulls off the wings of flies.‘ no,‘

said mr. britling. ‘there is no progress. nothing gets better. how can you believe in god after hugh? do you

believe in god?‘ ‘yes,‘ said mr. britling after a long pause,‘ ‘i do believe in god.‘ ‘who lets these things

happen!‘ she raised herself on her arm and thrust her argument at him with her hand. ‘who kills my teddy

and your hugh -- and millions.‘ ‘no,‘ said mr. britling. ‘but he must let these things happen. or why do

they happen?‘ ‘no,‘ said mr. britling. ‘it is the theologians who must answer that. they have been extravagant about

