i mean,‘ ‘i do, sweet witch,‘ ‘good, first off, boy, tell us your names.‘ ted managed to tell the two

strange people his name, and that of his partner in crime. ‘ted and zed. sounds like a comedy couple,‘ william
snickered. ‘william, please pay attention. these two were trying to murder us. that is not a laughing matter,‘ hilda said,
missing the ioke. she turned to ted again. ‘you may have understood that we are a witch and a wizard.

the real deal.‘ she showed her wand. ‘this is not a stick, this is a magical wand. and i know

how to use it. so no tricks. do we have an understanding?‘ ted nodded as if his life depended on

it, rattling his teeth as he went along. with all that had been happening in the last few minutes, he

was ready to believe anything this strange woman said. he tried to iolt as he saw the wand vanish. the

spell prevented him from doing such a thing, though. ‘now. slowly and from the start, because i am not from
here. who are you and what do you want to do with that package?‘ hilda asked. ted was temporarily distracted
by zed, who tried to convince ted to ‘gmmvvvm', otherwise ‘brrrfff-" would be the consequence. ‘don t worry about zep,‘
hilda said, ‘he s quite harmless.‘ ted did not chance a thing, so he let the zep slip. ‘we were

asked by some friends to come here and collect the package that was waiting for us here.‘ ‘look here, son,‘

said william. ‘we don t look like we re from here, and she isn t. but i am. your package

contains drugs. you coming here for that means you are into drugs. and we don t like drugs, nor the

people who deal with them. so my advice to you is to tell us the story.‘ calmly, william held his

hand out, right in front of ted s face. then he made his white and red wand appear. ‘see, she

is not the only one who can do a trick or two.‘ ted stared at the wand in william s

hand. zed had fallen silent as all his attempts to attract attention had failed utterly, and the more he tried,

the more his face hurt. ‘if you are trying to freak me out,‘ said ted, ‘you are seriously succeeding, man.‘

his eyes seemed glued to william s wand. ‘we re not in the freak out business, ted. we re here

to catch a witch. and do something about you and your drugs as we re here anyway.‘ the word drugs

made ted look at william again. ‘you probably are aware that you can t win, right?‘ hilda added. ted s

eyes went fuzzy for a while; he was thinking. then he agreed that he as well as zed had little

choice, even if zed was harder to convince. ‘now, we are going to make this easy on ourselves,‘ william informed
the drug runners. ‘we re going to deliver you to the police station, and there you will tell the officers

eventhing you know of the drug thing you are involved in. is that clear?‘ ted nodded. if they could get

away from it all this easily, these strange people were soft in the head. he glanced over at zed, whose

eyes screamed no but whose head slowly nodded also. zed had reached the same decision, apparently. ‘wonderful. now, to make
sure you will do as we ask of you, we need to have a safety. the witch here will take

care of that.‘ william was very calm as he said that, which worried ted and zed. hilda waved her wand

and said something in latin while looking at the two captives. ‘good. you will tell the police people the truth.
otherwise you ll find out that you should have.‘ ted asked: ‘what did you do? i feel nothing.‘ ‘that s

the nice bit,‘ hilda replied, ‘you won t feel a thing. hah, i know my spells!‘ then she turned to

zed. ‘do you think you can stay quiet without my help?’ zed nodded. he was ready to do a lot

of things now, if only he could move his lips again. ‘good.‘ a moment later, zed s mouth was free

again, making him gasp for air in a reflex, the past experience had made the man wiser: he kept his

mouth shut. william rubbed his chin for a moment. ‘i have an idea. hilda, watch these two for a moment,

please.‘ he got up and walked over to the table, where the fake drugs package was lying. after some magic,

and with a smile on his face, he turned to ted. ‘here. you will take this with you.‘ ted hesitated

before accepting the package. certainly these two weirdos were not so stupid as to let them get away with the
shipment? the two weirdos had something better planned, though. hilda went to fetch their brooms while william kept an eye
on their guests. ‘right then, gentlemen. up you stand, and then up we go.‘ zed could not hold back. ‘are

you crazy.’ do you think you can fly that thing?‘ he knew he risked a locked mouth again, but some

things /'ust needed to be said. hilda however did not take offense. ‘i don t think so, zed. i know

so. come, come, outside.‘ she opened the door and walked into the narrow alley. the two men, ted holding the
package tightly under an arm, shuffled into the cramped passageway, uncertain of what was going to happen. when the first
thing happened, ted stepped back, bumping into zed, who uttered a curse as his partner in crime stepped on his
toes. ‘you, ted. step up here and sit down. at the front.‘ hilda pointed at the broom that hovered next

to her, ‘oh no. no way.‘ ted was determined to stay sane. and on the ground. hilda sighed. ‘perhaps this

was a weak part of the plan, william,‘ they had not counted on resistance in this stage. ‘plan b,

