for it allowed a clear path to the sphere, if the cliff behemoth would take it. ‘dzeb?‘ ryson began with

respect, but not hiding his urgency. ‘i need you to get the sphere. i can t ask lief to do

it, it s making him sick. i have to hold the sword. can you reach it?‘ 'i believe it is

why i am here,‘ dzeb replied in his normal demeanor, as calm as if standing beside a deep blue mountain

lake. he moved forward with no outward expression of fear for his own safety. he completed the first part of

his task with such ease, ryson could only marvel at the spectacle. the cliff behemoth grabbed the ragged edges of

the metal sheets and tore them aside. the screeching whine of the yielding metal attested to the strength inherent in
the reflectors, but they could not withstand dzeb s power. as if opening a door upon a hinge, dzeb expanded

the opening, leaving him plenty of room to march through. he stepped up to the pedestal, his movements still relaxed,
his expression still without fear. without so much as a hint of reluctance, he reached out and plucked the sphere
from its support. ryson did not know exactly what to expect at that moment. he was relieved to see nothing.

the sphere accepted dzeb s hold without struggle. it left‘ its home of countless ages without the slightest reaction. as
dzeb carried the sphere free from the broken casing, lief stepped as far back from him as the shadow trees

would allow. he nearly allowed his shoulders to brush against the closest of the branches. he could only wonder as

to which death would be more painful, being consumed by the shadow trees or the slow decay from the poison
which even now was sapping most of his strength, ‘we need to move quickly,‘ the elf urged through a wheeze,

‘i need to put more space between myself and the sphere. that will not be possible while we remain in

this tier.‘ ryson acknowledged the request with actions. he retraced his path with greater speed and quickly guided them to
a point directly below the opening overhead. he looked to dzeb expectantly. ‘can you still make it with the sphere?‘
dzeb seeing the pain in the elf s face did not take the time to answer. he placed the sphere

securely under one arm, bent his legs, and leapt upward with power unmatched by any other living creature. he sailed
through the air, through the open space between the trees. his momentum carried him nearly completely through the opening. his
ascent ceased as half his massive body was already through the aperture. with his free hand, he grasped the ledge

of the upper tier. with one mighty pull, he forced himself up the remainder of the way. as he disappeared

out of sight, lief sighed with relief. he took several deep breaths, but only appeared slightly stronger. 'i believe the
poison has taken a great hold within me.‘ he revealed with sadness filling his expression as opposed to disgust or
anger. ‘can you make the climb out of here?‘ ryson spoke with an edge, hoping to urge the elf onward.

‘i believe so, though i don t know what good it will do.‘ ‘it will give you a chance,‘ ryson

pressed. ‘free air may help. who knows what will happen when the sphere is destroyed? and there are still the
algors. they might help revive you.‘ the elf replied with great fatigue hanging upon his every word. ‘do not worry,
ryson. i will move forward, if only to see the end of the sphere which threatens my people.‘ as if

to punctuate his statement, dzeb reared his colossal head into view of those below. ‘i have placed the sphere a

distance away from here. i will keep it away from lief as long as we are within this mountain, but

our exit is clear and it is time for us all to leave lief broke through to the open air

alone. be extracted himself from the fissure in sanctum s side to walk upon the inclined slope with labored, fatigued
steps. free of the cavern, with no stone overhead, he turned his head first to the night sky. the storm

had ceased and any trace of clouds had all but vanished. the stars hung proudly overhead, but they faded to

the east as the sky in that direction began to glow with an orange hue. the sun would rise soon,

another day would dawn. if the poison were not cleansed from his body, he knew it would be his last

day. he waited at the side of the breach, waited for ryson and dzeb. they had sent him through the

tunnel first, to keep him as far from the sphere as possible. they wished not to confine him in the

long gramped enclosure with ingar s sphere. not that it did much good. what would it save him? a few

extra moments of pain? the poison already coursed fully through his body. keeping him away from the sphere now was
like keeping the cat from the canary cage after the bird had already been eaten. he was, however, too weak

and too tired to argue. he found the mountain air mildly invigorating. he inhaled deeply. the fresh crisp night filled
his body with a refreshing chill. he was free of the stale air of sanctum, and free of the shadow

trees. if he could not cleanse himself of the poison, at least he could forget the terrors within the mountain,

though darkness still clung to the land, the twinkling stars and the eastern glow chased away his fear of the

dark. he sat heavily upon a large rock and crouched down to rub his ankle. it swelled slightly, pulsed with

slight pain, but thankfully, it was not a severe sprain. the fatigue within him, the poison adhering to his every
organ, this was the true threat to his health. he would collapse out of weakness long before this minor

