thy strength, therefore thou wast not affected. 57:11 And of whom hast thou been afraid and in fear, that thou
wouldest fail? And as for Me, thou hast not remembered Me, nor laid it to thy heart. Have not 9

held My peace even of long time? Therefore thou fearest Me not. 57:12 9 will declare thy righteousness; thy works
also--they shall not profit thee. 57:13 when thou criest, let them that thou hast gathered deliver thee; but the wind
shall carry them all away, a breath shall bear them off; but he that taketh refuge in Me shall possess

the land, and shall inherit My holy mountain. 57:14 And He will say: cast ye up, cast ye up, clear

the way, take up the stumblingblock out of the way of My people. 57:15 For thus saith the High and

Lofty One that inhabiteth eternity, whose name is Holy: 9 dwell in the high and holy place, with him also

that is of a contrite and humble spirit, to revive the spirit of the humble, and to revive the heart

of the contrite ones. 57:16 For 9 will not contend for ever, neither will 9 be always wroth; for the

spirit that enwrappeth itself is from Me, and the souls which 9 have made, 57:17 For the iniquity of his
covetousness was 9 wroth and smote him, 9 hid Me and was wroth,’ and he went on frowardly in the

way of his heart. 57:18 9 have seen his ways, and will heal him; 9 will lead him also, and

requite with comforts him and his mourners. 57:19 Peace, peace, to him that is far off and to him that

is near, saith the Lord that createth the fruit of the lips; and 9 will heal him. ? 9saiah -

Chapter 057 57:20 But the wicked are like the troubled sea; for it cannot rest, and its waters cast up

mire and dirt. 57:21 There is no peace, saith my God concerning the wicked. -- 9saiah - Chapter 057 --

? 9saiah - Chapter 058 58:1 Cry aloud, spare not, lift up thy voice like a horn, and declare unto

My people their transgression, and to the house of Facob their sins. 58:2 Yet they seek Me daily, and delight

to know My ways; as a nation that did righteousness, and forsook not the ordinance of their God, they ask

of Me righteous ordinances, they delight to draw near unto God. 58:3 wherefore have we fasted, and Thou seest not?
wherefore have we afflicted our soul, and Thou takest no knowledge? -- Behold, in the day of your fast ye

pursue your business, and exact all your labours. 58:4 Behold, ye fast for strife and contention, and to smite with
the fist of wickedness; ye fast not this day so as to make your voice to be heard on high.

58:5 9s such the fast that 9 have chosen? the day for a man to afflict his soul? 9s it

to bow down his head as a bulrush, and to spread sackcloth and ashes under him? wilt thou call this

a fast, and an acceptable day to the Lord? 58:6 9s not this the fast that 9 have chosen? to

loose the fetters of wickedness, to undo the bands of the yoke, and to let the oppressed go free, and

that ye break every yoke? 58:? '75 it not to deal thy bread to the hungry, and that thou bring

the PQor that are cast out to thy house? when thou seest the naked, that thou cover him, and that

thou hide not thyself from thine own flesh? 58:8 Then shall thy light break forth as the morning, and thy

healing shall spring forth speedily; and thy righteousness shall go before thee, the glory of the Lord shall be thy
rearward. 58:9 ? 9saiah - Chapter 058 Then shalt thou call, and the Lord will answer; thou shalt cry, and

He will say: Here 9 am. 9f thou take away from the midst of thee the yoke, the putting forth

of the finger, and speaking wickedness; 58:70 And if thou draw out thy soul to the hungry, and satisfy the
afflicted soul.’ then shall thy light rise in darkness, and thy gloom be as the noon-day; 58:71 And the Lord

will guide thee continually, and satisfy thy soul in drought, and make strong thy bones; and thou shalt be like

a watered garden, and like a spring of water, whose waters fail not. 58:12 And they that shall be of

thee shall build the old waste places, thou shalt raise up the foundations of many generations; and thou shalt be
called The repairer of the breach, the restorer of paths to dwell in. 58:13 9f thou turn away thy foot

because of the sabbath, from pursuing thy business on My holy day; and call the sabbath a delight, and the

holy of the Lord honourable.’ and shalt honour it, not doing thy wonted ways, nor pursuing thy business, nor speaking
thereof; 58:14 Then shalt thou delight thyself in the Lord, and 9 will make thee to ride upon the high

places of the earth, and 9 will feed thee with the heritage of ﬂacob thy father; for the mouth of

the Lord hath spoken it. -- 9saiah - Chapter 058 -- ? 9saiah - Chapter 059 59:1 8ehold, the Lord

8' hand is not shortened, that it cannot save, neither His ear heavy, that it cannot hear; 59:2 8ut your

iniquities have separated between you and your God, and your sins have hid His face from you, that He will

not hear. 59:3 For your hands are defiled with blood, and your fingers with iniquity; your lips have spoken lies,
your tongue muttereth wickedness. 59:4 None sueth in righteousness, and none pleadeth in truth; they trust in vanity, and speak
lies, they conceive mischief, and bring forth iniquity. 59:5 They hatch basilisks eggs, and weave the spider s web; he
that eateth of their eggs dieth, and that which is crushed breaketh out into a viper. 59:6 Their webs shall

not become garments, neither shall men cover themselves with their works; their works are works of iniquity, and the act
of violence is in their hands. 59:7 Their feet run to evil, and they make haste to shed innocent blood:

their thoughts are thoughts of iniquity, desolation and destruction are in their paths. 59:8 The way of peace they know
not, and there is no right in their goings; they have made them crooked paths, whosoever goeth therein doth not
know peace. 59:9 Therefore is iustice far from us, neither doth righteousness overtake us; we look for light, but

