as with a whisk her short skirts vanished into the darkness, the two spectators--miss bertha and miss monica williams--sat looking at each other in speechless amazement. for fifty
years they had peeped through that little window and across that trim garden, but never yet had such a sight as this come to confound them. ‘i wish,‘

said monica at last, ‘that we had kept the field.‘ ‘i am sure i wish we had,‘ answered her sister. the cottage from the window of which the

misses williams had looked out stands, and has stood for many a year, in that pleasant suburban district which lies between norwood, anerley, and forest hill. long before

there had been a thought of a township there, when the metropolis was still quite a distant thing, old mr. williams had inhabited ‘the brambles,‘ as the little

house was called, and had owned all the fields about it. six or eight such cottages scattered over a rolling country-side were all the houses to be found

there in the days when the century was young. from afar, when the breeze came from the north, the dull, low roar of the great city might be

heard, like the breaking of the tide of life, while along the horizon might be seen the dim curtain of smoke, the grim spray which that tide threw

up. gradually, however, as the years passed, the city had thrown out a long brick-feeler here and there, curving, extending, and coalescing, until at last the little cottages

had been gripped round by these red tentacles, and had been absorbed to make room for the modern villa. field by field the estate of old mr. williams

had been sold to the speculative builder, and had borne rich crops of snug suburban dwellings, arranged in curving crescents and tree-lined avenues. the father had passed away
before his cottage was entirely bricked round, but his two daughters, to whom the property had descended, lived to see the last vestige of country taken from them.

for years they had clung to the one field which faced their windows, and it was only after much argument and many heartburnings, that they had at last

consented that it should share the fate of the others. a broad road was driven through their quiet domain, the quarter was re-named ‘the wilderness,‘ and three square,

staring, uncompromising villas began to sprout up on the other side. with sore hearts, the two shy little old maids watched their steady progress, and speculated as to

what fashion of neighbors chance would bring into the little nook which had always been their own. and at last they were all three finished. wooden balconies and

overhanging eaves had been added to them, so that, in the language of the advertisement, there were vacant three eligible swiss-built villas, with sixteen rooms, no basement, electric
bells, hot and cold water, and every modern convenience, including a common tennis lawn, to be let at U00 a year, or lf,500 purchase. so tempting an offer

did not long remain open. within a few weeks the card had vanished from number one, and it was known that admiral hay denver, v. c., c. b.,

with mrs. hay denver and their only son, were about to move into it. the news brought peace to the hearts of the williams sisters. they had lived

with a settled conviction that some wild impossible colony, some shouting, singing family of madcaps, would break in upon their peace. this establishment at least was irreproachable. a
reference to ‘men of the time‘ showed them that admiral hay denver was a most distinguished officer, who had begun his active career at bomarsund, and had ended

it at alexandria, having managed between these two episodes to see as much service as any man of his years. from the taku forts and the _shannon_ brigade,

to dhow-harrying off zanzibar, there was no variety of naval work which did not appear in his record; while the victoria cross, and the albert medal for saving

life, vouched for it that in peace as in war his courage was still of the same true temper. clearly a very eligible neighbor this, the more so

as they had been confidentially assured by the estate agent that mr. harold denver, the son, was a most quiet young gentleman, and that he was busy from

morning to night on the stock exchange. the hay denvers had hardly moved in before number two also struck its placard, and again the ladies found that they

had no reason to be discontented with their neighbors. doctor balthazar walker was a very well-known name in the medical world. did not his qualifications, his membership, and
the record of his writings fill a long half-column in the ‘medical directory,‘ from his first little paper on the ‘gouty diathesis‘ in 1859 to his exhaustive treatise

upon ‘affections of the vaso-motor system‘ in 1884? a successful medical career which promised to end in a presidentship of a college and a baronetcy, had been cut

short by his sudden inheritance of a considerable sum from a grateful patient, which had rendered him independent for life, and had enabled him to turn his

