quickly at peter, then looked down again. ‘she s short of workers at the orphanage, and i m going to

help them out for a while. you know i love it there. i want to go. i ve been going

there every year since i was fifteen.‘ ‘i know, but it s not safe there, and it s getting worse.

i don t want you to go.‘ ‘it s fine. they don t have problems like that in the orphanages,

the missions. they ve never had any problems. it s fine. i need to go.‘ ‘that s not true. people

are dying there every day. you can t go. no way.‘ cindy s face contorted, her cheeks lit up with

a fiery red tint, and her eyes grew large. she looked him dead in his eyes and spoke very slowly.

‘friends do not tell their friends where they can and cannot go. friends do not have that right. friends come

and go, and i m going.‘ ‘i need you, cindy. i need you to stay  i  damn it,

you iust shouldn t go there.‘ her eyes now blazed. ‘are you that dense? peter, we will never be friends.

i will never get over the fact that you willfully and utterly used me. from the moment we first held

hands to when we embraced and when we kissed and when we first  you were iust using me. you

never had any intention of, how did you say it? of anything more. you played me for such a fool.

please leave. iust go home.‘ chad and sarah sprang up like startled kittens when they heard the back door open

and quickly slam shut. iohan approached, holding two beers in one hand and a cigarette in the other. he put

a beer in chad s hand and said. 'howzit, my bru? you do look bloody awful, eh?‘ chad squinted in

the fading light, trying to read iohan s expression. is this iohan my friend and mate or iohan the overprotective
father.’ or is it iohan the boozer, desperate to escape his ?ober state? ‘i m good. real good. hoe haan

dit met yo?‘ ‘of course you have ?omething. that s why you re wearing a bra, toady.‘ iulia turned back

to her pillaging of the dresser. ‘wear ?omething nice, but beachworthy. holly, too.‘ ‘why does holly have to go?‘ ‘don
t you want her to?‘ iulia held up a dark blue lace coverup, then rolled it and tucked it into

her beach bag. ‘well, yeah, but with terry...‘ sylvia looked to her sister as the older girl s blue eyes

shot to her. ‘what about terry?‘ there was no mistaking the defensive venom in her tone. sylvia managed a meek
smile, her interest in the newly discovered cleavage gone. ‘is there room?‘ ‘of course. now get packed and call holly.
he ll be here in an hour.‘ holly showed up on their doorstep twenty minutes later, including the ten minute
walktime. she beamed, a toothy grin that was promising embarrassing slipups over the course of the day. sylvia pulled her
into the house and shut the front door. ‘iulia said behave, holly.‘ sylvia raised an eyebrow. ‘what s up?‘ ‘i

got asked to the dance!‘ sylvia wished she d have warned her. ‘already? it s only the first week of

school.‘ her scowl deepened. ‘what dance?‘ ‘the first dance: you know, the one that coincides with the high school homecoming
dance,‘ holly s smile widened, ‘/'amie?‘ a brisk nod from holly. sylvia groaned. ‘great. good.‘ ‘what about matt?‘ they settled
on the couch as iulia finished preening in her bedroom, ‘what about matt? he s my lab partner. that s

it,‘ ‘what s this about matt?‘ iulia stepped into the room, her bag slung over one shoulder. ‘there is no

malt.’ iust a lab rat we have in class.‘ sylvia shot holly a glare. ‘oh. not that threadbare thing in

the science room, is it?‘ ‘no. this is a different rat.‘ sylvia got to her feet and went down the

hall to her room, holly at her heels. ‘i ve got to finish packing.‘ ‘terry will be here any minute.

since holly s already here, i called him; he s on his way over,‘ iulia s voice sailed to them.

‘i m all alone and nobody cares,‘ sylvia said once in her room, sighing and grabbing her green onepiece swimming
suit and stuffing it into her beach bag. ‘don t be that way. the dance isn t for another five

weeks.‘ holly stood in front of the mirror at sylvia s dresser and lifted her bikini top with both hands

beneath her oversized tshirt. ‘this top always makes me look smooshed.‘ sylvia glanced at her friend s reflection, then went
back to packing a beach towel. ‘you don t look smooshed to me.‘ ‘what s eating you, red?‘ holly sat

on the edge of the bed and watched sylvia cram a bottle of suntan lotion into the bag. ‘you ever

think ?omeone can be too perfect? that there s got to be a flaw ?omewhere?‘ the lotion didn t really

fit, and sylvia shoved it in again, trying to pull up the zipper. ‘oh. terry. he s not perfect, red.‘

holly wagged a finger at her. ‘he s a vampire, remember?‘ ‘i never said he s a vampire; that was

just a metaphorthingy,‘ she pulled the zipper, and it rebelled by splitting midway down, ‘shit.‘ ‘he s here!‘ iulia called
from the living room. ‘we re going!‘ terry s apartment was one of four in an apartment house, and located

two blocks from the edge of town. it was accessed by the community staircase that ran between the upper and

lower apartments, and a twisting fireescape from the back. they d only swung by because he had come straight from
a last minute meeting with a client in akron and hadn t packed yet. sylvia and holly waited in the

front room while terry and iulia went into his bedroom to pack his bag, their voices muffled, hers low

