ve seen so far, going through systems reports will be the least of your worries.‘ there was a touch of

gravity in her statement. i could only guess at the mess we were in. as i sat down at tolson

s desk, my disdain for desk work waved a scolding finger. i promised myself it would only be temporary. ann-marie

s reports were already listed on the screen. i started with propulsion and worked my way down through nav, life

support, communications, networking, and all that followed. the reports were substantial. the motivation of the crew was beyond what anyone
could have expected. they must have barely left the aft section when they reported for duty. the problem was it

was seriously bad. the aliens had attacked the hard wiring that ran from the various control rooms to the peripheral

devices at the other end. these were the lines that ran through all the most difficult and remote areas of

the ship. the wire-type connections had been fried, the cabling no longer any good. even worse, the fiber cables had

somehow been overheated so that the glass in the lines was distorted and unusable. we had communications within the ship,
but all lines leading to dishes or antennae were destroyed. we could eventually repair and reboot the necessary computer systems,
but we could not communicate with the equipment they controlled. it was the end result of what the aliens had

first begun. we had been forced to control our gravity manually. we had planned to start our engines manually. they

had been destroying our interfacing before we even knew they were there. had that been the worst of it, we

would have had a chance. unfortunately, looming beyond those problems was the loss of air and water. we knew more

than half of both had been taken. the final inventory had not been completed yet, mainly because many of the

sensor lines were no longer working. when the reports came in, the air and water levels would tell us how

long we had to live, replacement department heads for those missing needed to be appointed, and then a staff meeting
scheduled to reconstitute upper management. the captain had said that distress beacons were already sent out, but the chances that
they were blocked were great. we could not pop out in the escape pods. we were too far from anything,

and it was doubtful anyone was coming for us. i put my elbow on the desk and rubbed my forehead.

we needed to go home. to do that, we needed to go to light. somehow, we had to go to

light. i pushed back in my chair and took a deep breath. at the door, i asked ann-marie to arrange

a department flow chart for me with all the missing or out of action people co-notated. she gave me the

already done reply, and pointed me back to my desk. in a way, filling the missing positions wasn t too

difficult. since i did not know many of them, i had to take the highest available name on each chart

and bump them up. in cases where i could, i used the people who had been so proactive in our

recovery from the unthinkable. in one of life s many ironies, maureen brandon had survived the ordeal. i had ann-marie
schedule a staff meeting. the only minor item still needed, was a plan. they arrived at least forty-five minutes early.

we squeezed evenone in and let the doors shut. i did not have to ask for silence. it was already

there. ‘so, i ve gone over your status reports. great /'ob, by the way. i don t quite know how

all of you managed to do that much so quickly, but thank-you. obviously we need to address the most pressing

issues beginning with life support. mr. leaman, is there any further updates on critical expendables?‘ ‘we know it s less

than three months worth of air and water. we began the trip with roughly twelve months of supplies, twice what

we needed, so they transferred a hell of a lot, before they were stopped. we probably should expect no more

than two months of normal use expendables, so rationing should begin immediately.‘ ‘when do you expect the final figures?‘ ‘sometime
in the next four hours. the crews have some climbing around to do.‘ ‘please let me know as soon as

that comes in.‘ ‘doctor, your current status?‘ doctor pacell looked exhausted. clearly he hadn t got the same break i

had. he straightened up and tried to appear composed. ‘the victims of the alien assaults are being kept in suspension

in a storage compartment we ve converted for that purpose. i am monitoring that area continuously. otherwise, we have no
critical cases. perk holloway is stable and doing very well. i see no medical reasons he won t recover fully

after a long internment period. our other cases range from miscellaneous iniuries, to psychological stress. all of those are in
treatment and controlled.‘ ‘do you have eventhing you need, doctor?‘ ‘considering how many people have been variously affected, we are
doing okay supply wise. i ll let you know if that changes.‘ ‘okay. propulsion, we re ready for the bad

news.‘ paul kusama stood up and leaned forward on the table. ‘our tachyon drives are perfectly healthy. our amplights are
perfectly healthy. our interface from main control is damaged beyond repair. we can still only give you manual control of
both engine sets, it s a shipyard type of [ob to fix this.‘ he sat back down and folded his

arms, with an expression that suggested it was not his fault. ‘well getting right to the point, has a manual

iump to light ever actually been done?‘ without looking up, he shook his head. ‘not to my knowledge.‘ ‘i know

the basics of it, but give us a run down on the problems.‘ leaman took the question. ‘there s a

shock wave going into light, and it s not iust a sonic-boom type of thing. it s more like

