it is obviously not the interest of these men to kill him. warr heard them say as much. they could not make sure, perhaps, of doing so tough

a young fellow an in/'ury which would certainly prevent him from fighting. even with a broken arm he might pull the fight off, as men have done before.
there was too much money on for them to run any risks. they gave him a tap on the head, therefore, to prevent his making too much resistance,

and they then drove him off to some farmhouse or stable, where they will hold him a prisoner until the time for the fight is over, i warrant

that you see him before to-night as well as ever he was.‘ this theory sounded so reasonable that it seemed to lift a little of the weight from

my heart, but i could see that from my uncle s point of view it was a poor consolation. ‘i dare say you are right, craven,‘ said he.

‘i am sure that i am.‘ ‘but it won t help us to win the fight.‘ ‘that s the point, sir,‘ cried belcher, ‘by the lord, i wish

they d let me take his place, even with my left arm strapped behind me.‘ ‘i should advise you in any case to go to the ringside,‘ said

craven. ‘You should hold on until the last moment in the hope of your man turning up.‘ ‘i shall certainly do so. and i shall protest against paying

the wagers under such circumstances.‘ craven shrugged his shoulders. ‘you remember the conditions of the match,‘ said he. ‘i fear it is pay or play. no doubt the
point might be submitted to the referees, but i cannot doubt that they would have to give it against you.‘ we had sunk into a melancholy silence, when

suddenly belcher sprang up from the table. ‘hark!‘ he cried. ‘listen to that!‘ ‘what is it?‘ we cried, all three. ‘the betting! listen again!‘ out of the babel

of voices and roaring of wheels outside the window a single sentence struck sharply on our ears. ‘even money upon sir charles s nominee!‘ ‘even money!‘ cried my
uncle. ‘it was seven to one against me, yesterday. what is the meaning of this?‘ ‘even money either way,‘ cried the voice again. ‘there s somebody knows something,‘
said belcher, ‘and there s nobody has a better right to know what it is than we. come on, sir, and we ll get to the bottom of

it.‘ the village street was packed with people, for they had been sleeping twelve and fifteen in a room, whilst hundreds of gentlemen had spent the night in
their carriages. so thick was the throng that it was no easy matter to get out of the george. a drunken man, snoring horribly in his breathing, was

curled up in the passage, absolutely oblivious to the stream of people who flowed round and occasionally over him. ‘what s the betting, boys?‘ asked belcher, from the
steps. ‘even money, /im,' cried several voices. ‘it was long odds on wilson when last i heard.‘ ‘yes; but there came a man who laid freely the other

way, and he started others taking the odds, until now you can get even money.‘ ‘who started it?‘ ‘why, that s he! the man that lies drunk in

the passage. he s been pouring it down like water ever since he drove in at six o clock, so it s no wonder he s like that.‘

belcher stooped down and turned over the man s inert head so as to show his features. ‘he s a stranger to me, sir.‘ ‘and to me,‘ added

my uncle. ‘but not to me,‘ i cried. ‘it s iohn cumming, the landlord of the inn at friar s oak. i ve known him ever since i

was a boy, and i can t be mistaken.‘ ‘well, what the devil can he know about it?‘ said craven. ‘nothing at all, in all probability,‘ answered my

uncle. ‘he is backing young /'im because he knows him, and because he has more brandy than sense, his drunken confidence set others to do the same, and

so the odds came down.‘ ‘he was as sober as a fudge when he drove in here this morning,‘ said the landlord, ‘he began backing sir charles s

nominee from the moment he arrived. some of the other boys took the office from him, and they very soon brought the odds down amongst them,‘ ‘i wish

he had not brought himself down as well,‘ said my uncle. ‘i beg that you will bring me a little lavender water, landlord, for the smell of this

crowd is appalling. i suppose you could not get any sense from this drunken fellow, nephew, or find out what it is he knows.‘ it was in vain

that i rocked him by the shoulder and shouted his name in his ear. nothing could break in upon that serene intoxication, ‘well, it s a unique situation

as far as my experience goes,‘ said berkeley craven. ‘here we are within a couple of hours of the fight, and yet you don t know whether

