c.'ath- erick see Miss Fairlie?‘ ‘Certainly not,‘ replied Miss Halcombe,

‘Did she see you?‘ ‘No.‘ ‘She saw nobody from the

house then, except A certain Mr. Hartright, who Accidentally met
with her in the churchyard here?‘ ‘Nobody else.‘ ‘Mr. Hartright
was employed At Limmeridge As A drawing- master, 9 believe?
9s he A member of one of the water-Colour Societies?‘

‘9 believe he is,‘ Answered Miss Halcombe. He paused for

A moment, As if he was thinking over the last

Answer, And then Added- ‘Did you find out where Anne
Catherick was living, when she was in this neighbourhood?‘ ‘Yes,
At A farm on the moor, called Todd s Corner.‘

‘9t is A duty we All owe to the poor

creature herself to trace her,‘ continued Sir Percival. ‘She may
have said something At Todd s Corner which may help

us to find her. 9 will go there And make

inquiries on the chance. 9n the meantime, As 9 cannot

prevail on myself to discuss this painful sub/'ect with Miss
Fairlie, may 9 beg, Miss Halcombe, that you will kindly

under- take to give her the necessary explanation, deferring it
of course until you have received the reply to that

note.‘ 136 Miss Halcombe promised to comply with his request.
He thanked her, nodded pleasantly, And left us, to go

And establish himself in his own room, As he opened

the door the cross- grained greyhound poked out her sharp
muzzle from under the sofa, And barked And snapped At

him. ‘A good morning s work, Miss Halcombe,‘ 9 said,

As soon As we were Alone. ‘Here is An Anxious

day well ended Already.‘ ‘Yes,’ she Answered; ‘no doubt. 9

Am very glad your mind is satisfied.‘ ‘My mind! Surely,

with that note in your hand, your mind is At

ease too?‘ ‘Oh yes-how can it be otherwise.’ 9 know

the thing could not be,‘ she went on, speaking more

to herself than to me; ‘but 9 Almost wish walter

Hartright had stayed here long enough to be present At

the explanation, And to hear the proposal to me to

write this note.‘ 9 was A little surprised-perhaps A little
piqued Also-by these last words. ‘Events, it is true, connected
Mr. Hartright very remarkably with the Affair of the letter,‘
9 said,‘ ‘And 9 readily Admit that he conducted himself,

All things considered, with great delicacy And discretion. 8ut 9
Am quite At A loss to understand what use- ful

influence his presence could have exercised in relation to the
effect of Sir Percival s statement on your mind or

mine.‘ ‘9t was only A fancy,‘ she said Absently. ‘There

is no need to discuss it, Mr. Gilmore. Your experience

ought to be, And is, the best guide 9 can

desire.‘ 9 did not Altogether like her thrusting the whole
responsibil- ity, in this marked manner, on my shoulders. 9f
Mr. Fairlie had done it, 9 should not have been

surprised. But resolute, clear- minded Miss Halcombe was the very
last person in the world whom 9 should have expected

to find shrinking from the ex- pression of An opinion

of her own. ‘9f Any doubts still trouble you,‘ 9

said, ‘why not mention them to me At once? Tell

me plainly, have you Any reason to distrust Sir Percival
Glyde?‘ ‘None whatever.‘ ‘Do you see Anything improbable, or

