control. iust as their fob as fernlanders was to make sure that didn t happen. the fernland men watched carefully

as an archer measured out powders from three different boxes and packed them into a short length of hollow bamboo.
they stood a few feet away to protect themselves from explosions and hilgard shouted out questions in the barburee tongue.
‘he says the yellow powder is not dangerous,‘ hilgard translated. smiles walked to the box that contained the yellow powder
and stuck his finger into the rank smelling substance. he sniffed it and coughed. ‘smells like somethin gone bad.‘ hilgard
asked about the second box of black powder. ‘left over from fire? i m not sure what that means,‘ hilgard

said, ‘but he says that one is not dangerous either.’ smiles moved to the second box and pinched a bit

between his fingers. ‘don t be settin something off,‘ bear yelled to his friend. smiles brought the bit of black

powder over to bear. bear shrunk back a little. 'ain t nothin but charcoal, ground up like. see?‘ smiles held

his fingers out for bear s inspection. bear sniffed it and ground a bit into a finer powder with his

fingers. ‘he s right. tis charcoal.‘ the others gathered around and agreed, in turnit was only charcoal. ‘the last box
holds the troublemaker,‘ hilgard said, after speaking to the archer. ‘he says it sometimes explodes on its own.‘ they looked
at the white powder in the third box from a distance. smiles started to walk toward it. ‘are ya crazy?‘

bear shouted. ‘did ya not hear what the man said?‘ smiles shrugged and turned back to his friends. ‘how we

gonna fix them bad arrows if we don t take a look see?‘ they saw that the archer had finished

packing and wicking his bamboo tube and was now in the process of attaching it to a heavy arrow. he

turned to sight in on a sheep s skull at the end of the field. then he lowered the arrow,

lit the wick with a candle and quickly let the arrow fly. the arrow hit its mark and the sheep

s skull exploded. a cheer went up from his fellow archers. muller ran down the field and gathered up the

fragments of bone he could find. he brought these few burnt fragments back to show to the other fernland men.

‘this is incredible. i could hardly find a piece bigger than my thumb. we have to take some of those

powders back to fernland.‘ ‘by we, i m hopin ya mean you,‘ bear stood with his hands on his hips.

‘i ll not be carryin it nor comin near him what is.‘ muller glared contemptuously at bear, then turned to

hilgard. ‘we need to find out where they get the yellow and white powders. the charcoal is no problem.‘ they

watched as more archers packed tubes with measured portions of the three powderstwo parts yellow, three parts black and fifteen
parts white. the archers seemed encouraged by the success of the sheep s skull explosion. a cloud of powder hung

in the air as they worked. several men got off successful shots, then a close call occurred as a tube

exploded Just after an arrow was released. take moved a little closer to watch as an archer finished packing his

tube with powders, then pressed wax into both ends to seal it. he stuck a thin stick through the soft

wax to form a wick. take stepped back as the archer began to tie the tube to an arrow. take

shook his head as he returned to his group of friends. ‘maybe it is bad magic. it looks like chance

whether it explodes when the wick burns through like it s supposed to or whether it blows up before the

flame makes contact.‘ ‘you would think they would be more afraid then they seem to be,‘ hilgard said. muller shook

his head. ‘the rewards when it works are too great. they have to chance it and to do that, they

have to practice.‘ ‘i can t see fernland s archers wantin ta chance it,‘ bear said. muller glared at bear

for the second time. ‘if you re so worried about your safety why don t you go wait with the

women?‘ bear glared back at muller, then his glare turned into a mean smile. ‘why don t i /ust do

that.’ what bout you then smiles, ya comin with me to wait with the women folk?‘ smiles shrugged and looked
sheepishly at his friends. ‘i spose i d best.‘ bear was grateful when his friend ioined him. they headed back

to the city of tents. when they were out of hearing range bear turned to smiles. ‘the spy s iust

mad cause he knows i m right. nobody in fernland is stupid enough ta be messin with arrows what explode

any time they feel like it.‘ ‘bet yer right there. what ya make of it? why s a one explode

ahead a time and an a tother don t?‘ ‘i m guessin once them three powders get together they re

ready ta blow an all kinds a things could set em off. like maybe shakin or somethin . but i

don t see no good comin from tryin to find out.‘ when they reached twenty quivers tent, the two little

grand daughters ran out to meet them. their hands were covered with flour. ‘long as we re sent ta keep

the women folk company, what say we show them how a proper sweet pastry s made?‘ bear asked. ‘i got

a bit of a taste fer one.‘ ‘now yer talkin my language.‘ smiles began rolling up his sleeves. the two

men entered the tent, much to the delight of the little girls. with gestures toward the flour, the wood fire

and themselves, they let the women know they meant to cook. the women looked surprised but laughed among themselves and
stood back to watch. bear located the ingredients he neededbarley flour, oil, goat s milk, honey and some dried

