t help.‘ he had a point. amir handed me his lantern and grabbed a flaming torch from the wall iust

inside the entrance. ‘for you this is going to be a once in a lifetime experience.‘ ‘i must admit, you

have piqued my curiosity.‘ ‘i m glad because i m afraid i must insist.‘ at that moment amir pulled a

pistol from behind the folds of his clothing, motioning me to enter the cave. forced through the entrance of the
cave, i was surprisingd to see two well-armed large men, causing me to abruptly stop in my tracks. immediately,
felt a sharp pain in my back as a gun barrel nudged me on into the cave. ‘amir, what s

going on here? if you are thinking of holding us for ransom, i m afraid you re going to be

disappointed.‘ ‘i am sorry. iack, that is not our intent, but we do have a problem. it appears that your

friend rudy has been doing some exploring of his own tonight.‘ iust then, rudy came into view as we rounded
a crook. he had been bound and placed on the floor in a sitting position against the rock wall, ‘rudy,

are you all right?‘ ‘yeah, iack, i m fine. i m sorry, i feel like such an idiot, i just

wanted to look around a little on my own. i didn t think it would do any harm. i followed

saleem from the camp and down the trail. i was /'ust getting ready to come and get you when our

friends invited me to stay. you should see what i found.‘ amir shot rudy a look that he understood immediately
to mean keep your mouth shut . ‘you say you followed saleem?‘ i asked. saleem stepped out from the shadows
where he could be seen. ‘iack, i really wish rudy had stayed in camp. everything would have been over by
morning and everyone would have been on their merry way. but now___' amir cut in, ‘but now we have to
decide how to handle this problem.‘ ‘i still don t understand, what problem? saleem, are you with these people? we

ve known each ohure for years. why would you_,_?‘ i began to ask. ‘sorry, iack, but some things are more

important than even friendship.‘ amir spoke, ‘this entrance and ohures like it have remained hidden from our enemies for centuries.
and now your friend has stumbled onto our little secret. you both have placed yourselves in a terrible position; now

we must decide what to do about it. this entrance cannot be revealed to our enemies and its location must

be protected at all cost. when saleem first told us of your plans and of your needs for a guide

and bearers, we decided to ioin your expedition to keep an eye on you. it was our responsibility and our

destiny as it was for our ancestors before us,‘ ‘wait a second. you re moving too fast. so you knew

saleem from before?‘ ‘of course. we ve known saleem since he was a boy. he is one of our brohures,

everyone you see here is a part of the nestorian brohurehood.‘ ‘who are these nestorian brohurehood? i ve never heard

of them before.‘ ‘many centuries ago this sect of the nestorian brohurehood was charged with the protection of a certain

artifact located on this mountain. monasteries were built all around its base and on the summit and the brohurehood have
continued all these years to be vigilant and successful in their efforts to protect it, the stone monument you saw

was also placed here by them. unfortunately, over the years the rain, ice, hail, wind, and lightning have taken their

toll on the monasteries. these structures no longer exist. only the monument remains.‘ ‘then you are descendants of these nestorians?‘
i asked. ‘that is correct.‘ ‘that is fantastic, if i may ask, what happened to the artifact and what was

it?‘ ‘oh, it s still here,‘ said amir. ‘i ll say it is,‘ said rudy. i gave rudy a puzzled

look, ‘you ve seen it?‘ he looked at amir, didn t receive a negative signal of any kind, then at

me and nodded yes. ‘i d like to see it,‘ i said. ‘i suppose it doesn t matter now,‘ said

amir. ‘i have anohure question. i guess that this was a setup from the very beginning?‘ ‘i hadn t thought

of it in that way before. with saleem s help, all we wanted to do was to Join your expedition

with the intention of keeping an eye on you, iust in case.‘ ‘and you weren t really surprisingd when the

ark was miraculously missing either then?‘ ‘that is correct,‘ ‘well then, i must commend you on your acting ability. you

really had me fooled.‘ amir bows as he says, ‘thank you.‘ ‘so, was there ever really an ark up there?‘

‘oh, yes. most definitely.‘ ‘then what happened to it?‘ ‘in due time.‘ ‘you know where it is then?‘ i asked.

amir didn t answer. ‘then when are you going to tell me what the problem is? just because rudy found

this cave entrance and seems to have seen something he shouldn t have? what could possibly be so important?‘ amir

had had enough of the questions and answers. he was no longer the iovial guide that had brought us up

the mountain. the facade was no longer needed. he reverted back to the individual that had faced sokolov. ‘was everything

an act?‘ i asked. ‘the plan was that we wouldn t find the ark, you would be disappointed and discouraged,

and then we would lead you back down the mountain and you could be on your way home.‘ ‘so now

can you tell me what we re doing here?‘ ‘it s all because of what rudy has seen.‘ i turned

to rudy and asked, ‘rudy, what did you see?‘ he looked at amir again, waiting for permission, who nodded okay

, ‘fack, it s the ark___noah s ark. inside the mountain,‘ whispered rudy. i smiled because it was so

‘I.

