of monsters - Frankenstein, the Golem - and androids or anthropoids. Their behavior is more ‘humane’ than the humans around them. This,

perhaps, is what really sets humans apart: their behavioral unpredictability. ‘it is yielded by the interaction between Mankind s underlying immutable genetically-determined
nature - and Man s kaleidoscopically changing environments, The (onstructivists even claim that Human Nature is a mere cultural artefact, Sociobiologists, on
the other hand, are determinists. They believe that human nature - being the inevitable and inexorable outcome of our bestial ancestry -

cannot be the subject of moral iudgment. An improved Turing Test would look for baffling and erratic patterns of misbehavior to identify

humans. Pico della Mirandola wrote in 'Oration on the Dignity of Man’ that Man was born without a form and can mould

and transform - actually, create - himself at will. Existence precedes essence, said the Existentialists centuries later. The one defining human characteristic
may be our awareness of our mortality. The automatically triggered, ‘fight or flight’, battle for survival is common to all living things

(and to appropriately programmed machines). Not so the catalytic effects of imminent death, These are uniquely human, The appreciation of the fleeting
translates into aesthetics, the uniqueness of our ephemeral life breeds morality, and the scarcity of time gives rise to ambition and creativity,

‘in an infinite life, everything materializes at one time or another, so the concept of choice is spurious, The realization of our

finiteness forces us to choose among alternatives. This act of selection is predicated upon the existence of ’free will’. Animals and machines

are thought to be devoid of choice, slaves to their genetic or human programming. Yet, all these answers to the question: ‘what

does it mean to be human’ - are lacking. The set of attributes we designate as human is sub/'ect to profound alteration.

Drugs, neuroscience, introspection, and experience all cause irreversible changes in these traits and characteristics. The accumulation of these changes can lead, in
principle, to the emergence of new properties, or to the abolition of old ones. Animals and machines are not supposed to possess

free will or exercise it. what, then, about fusions of machines and humans (bionics)? At which point does a human turn into

a machine? And why should we assume that free will ceases to exist at that - rather arbitrary - point? ‘introspection -

the ability to construct self-referential and recursive models of the world - is supposed to be a uniquely human quality. what about

introspective machines? Surely, say the critics, such machines are PROGRAMMED to introspect, as opposed to humans, To qualify as introspection, it must
be T-IWLLED, they continue. Yet, if introspection is willed - wt-{O wills it? Self-willed introspection leads to infinite regression and formal logical

paradoxes. Moreover, the notion - if not the formal concept - of ‘human’ rests on many hidden assumptions and conventions. Political correctness
notwithstanding - why presume that men and women {or different races) are identically human? Aristotle thought they were not, A lot separates

males from females - genetically (both genotype and phenotype} and environmentally (culturally). what is common to these two sub-species that makes them
both ’human’.’ Can we conceive of a human without body (i.e., a Platonian Form, or soul)? Aristotle and Thomas Aquinas think not,

A soul has no existence separate from the body. A machine-supported energy field with mental states similar to ours today - would

it be considered human? what about someone in a state of coma - is he or she {or it) fully human? 9s

a new born baby human - or, at least, fully human - and, if so, in which sense? what about a future

human race - whose features would be unrecognizable to us? Machine-based intelligence - would it be thought of as human? '7)’ yes,

when would it be considered human? ‘7n all these deliberations, we may be confusing ‘human’ with ’person’, The former is a private

case of the latter. Locke s person is a moral agent, a being responsible for its actions, ‘7t is constituted by the

continuity of its mental states accessible to introspection, Locke s is a functional definition. Vt readily accommodates non-human persons (machines, energy matrices}
if the functional conditions are satisfied, Thus, an android which meets the prescribed requirements is more human than a brain dead person,

Descartes obiection that one cannot specify conditions of singularity and identity over time for disembodied souls is right only if we assume

that such ’souls' possess no energy. A bodiless intelligent energy matrix which maintains its form and identity over time is conceivable, certain

A9 and genetic software programs already do it. Strawson is Cartesian and ktantian in his definition of a ’person' as a ‘primitive’.

80th the corporeal predicates and those pertaining to mental states apply equally, simultaneously, and inseparably to all the individuals of that type

of entity. Human beings are one such entity. Some, like wiggins, limit the list of possible persons to animals - but this

is far from rigorously necessary and is unduly restrictive. The truth is probably in a synthesis: A person is any type of

fundamental and irreducible entity whose typical physical individuals (i.e., members) are capable of continuously experiencing a range of states of consciousness and
permanently having a list of psychological attributes. This definition allows for non-animal persons and recognizes the personhood of a brain damaged human
{’capable of experiencing’J, 9t also incorporates Locke s view of humans as possessing an ontological status similar to ’clubs’ or ’nations’ -

their personal identity consists of a variety of interconnected psychological continuities. The Encroachment of the Public By: Dr, Sam Vaknin Also Read
The Law of Technology and the Technology of Law - An Epistolary Dialogue The Ghost in the Net - An Epistolary Dialogue

As Aristotle and ilohn Stuart Mill observed, the private sphere sets limits, both normative and empirical, to the rights, powers, and obligations

of Others, The myriad forms of undue invasion of the private sphere - such as rape, burglary, or eavesdropping - are all

crimes. Even the state - this monopolist of legal violence - respects these boundaries. when it fails to honor the distinction between

public and private - when it is authoritarian or totalitarian - it loses its legitimacy. Alas, this vital separation of realms is

eroding fast, ‘in theory, private life is insulated and shielded from social pressures, the ambit of norms and laws, and even the

strictures of public morality. Reality, though, is different. The encroachment of the public is inexorable and, probably, irreversible. The individual is forced
to share, consent to, or merely obey a panoply of laws, norms, and regulations not only in his or her relationships with

others - but also when solitary. Failure to comply - and to be seen to be conforming - leads to dire consequences,

‘in a morbid twist, public morality is now synonymous with social orthodoxy, political authority, and the exercise of police powers. The quiddity,

remit, and attendant rights of the private sphere are now determined publicly, by the state, ‘in the modern world , privacy -

the freedom to withhold or divulge information - and autonomy - the liberty to act in certain ways when not in public

- are illusory in that their scope and essence are ever-shifting, reversible, and culture-dependent. They both are perceived as public concessions

