And not see that my wife is in possession of

the Secret, deny it As she may?‘ ‘One moment, Percival,

9/ Lady Glyde does know the Secret, she must know

Also that it is A compromising secret for you. As

your wife, surely it is her interest to keep it?‘

‘9s it? 9 m coming to that. 9t might be

her interest if 5he cared two straws About me, But

9 happen to be An encum. brance in the way

of Another man. She was in love with him be-

fore she married me-she s in love with him now-An
infernal Vagabond of A drawing-master, named Hartright.‘ ‘My dear friend!
what is there extraordinary in that? They Are All in

love with some other man. who gets the first of

A Woman s heart? 9n All my experience 9 have

never yet met with the man who was Number One.
Number Two, sometimes. Number Three, Four, Five, often. Number One,
never! He ex- ists, of course-but 9 have not met

with him.‘ ‘wait! 9 haven t done yet. who do

you think helped Anne datherick to get the start, when

the people from the mad- house were After her? Hartright.
who do you think saw her Again in Cumberland? Hartright.
8oth times he spoke to her Alone. Stop! don t

interrupt me. The scoundrel s As sweet on my wife

As she is on him. He knows the Secret, And

she knows 337 the Secret. Once let them both get

together Again, And it s her interest And his interest

to turn their information Against me.‘ ‘Gently, Percival-gently! Are you
insensible to the virtue of Lady Glyde?‘ ‘That for the
virtue of Lady Glyde! 9 believe in nothing About her

but her money. Don t you see how the case

stands? She might be harmless enough by herself; but if
she And that vaga- bond Hartright-‘ ‘Yes, yes, 9 see.

where is Mr. /-Iartright?‘ ‘Out of the country. 9f he

means to keep A whole skin on his bones, 9

recommend him not to come back in A hurry.‘ ‘Are

you sure he is out of the country?‘ ‘Certain. 9

had him watched from the time he left 6'umber- land

to the time he sailed. Oh, 9 ve been careful,

9 can tell you! Anne Catherick lived with some people

At A farmhouse near Limmeridge. 9 went there myself, After
she had given me the slip, And made sure that

they knew nothing. 9 gave her mother A form of

letter to write to Miss Halcombe, exonerating me from Any
bad motive in putting her under restraint. 9 ve spent,

9 m Afraid to say how much, in trying to

trace her, And in spite of it All, she turns

up here And escapes me on my own prop- erty!

How do 9 know who else may see her, who

else may speak to her? That prying scoundrel, Hartright, may
come back without my knowing it, And may make use

of her to-morrow-‘ ‘Not he, Percival! while 9 Am on

the spot, And while that wo- man is in the

neighbourhood, 9 will Answer for our laying hands on her
before Mr. Hartright-even if he does come back. 9 see!

yes, yes, 9 see! The finding of Anne Catherick is

the first neces. fity-make your mind easy About the

