said, surprised by his comment. ‘but you could easily have an extraordinary port. the river that runs from king s

lake to the sea. could quickly become an estuary leading ships from sea to a huge lake port. you could

invite trade to and from the ends of the earth. i can envision an unending line of ships, going and

coming, bringing fine cloth, spices, wines, iewelsthose same ships carrying away the gifts of your forests and rivers. and of
course, a tax on all for the privilege of docking at your port.‘ ‘king geoffrey has never spoken of it.

perhaps it would be more difficult than you imagine.‘ ‘we see through the eyes of a seafaring people. for us,

it would not be difficult. for us, the work would be a blessing. and in return for such a blessing,

i envision the gift we would leave with you. a beautiful golden barge, a royal barge, navigating the estuary, sailing

through the forest of fernland all the way from the king s lake to the river s end. she rides

triumphantly, decked out in pennants and banners, bearing the crest of the dragon. i see myself designing such a vessel.

i see it coming to life with the skilled hands of my meater ship builders.‘ delphinia s eyes followed the

caliph s in his flight of fancy. ‘is such a dream possible?‘ she asked. ‘of course. not only possible, i

believe it is destined to be. think of the improbable series of events which has brought us here to you.

i am a great believer in destiny. we could use the wood from your forest to build the barge. for

this we could set up our staging area alongside the lake. we could harbor our ships temporarily on the lake,

once we have completed the necessary dredging.‘ ‘but why would you do all this for us?‘ delphinia asked. ‘it is

what we do. we are ship builders and sea traders. we go where the wind takes us.‘ ‘i must tell

king geoffrey about this,‘ delphinia said. ‘oh, here he is now.‘ delphinia smiled and waved to king geoffrey as he

and muller entered the reception hall. queen delphinia, eyes shining with excitement, rushed to tell geoffrey of the caliph s
offer. king geoffrey, his face flushed with anger, his mouth a determined scowl, rushed to warn delphinia of the threat
the caliph posed to fernland. they met in the middle of the reception hall, surrounded by ministers and dinner guests.

king geoffrey easily spotted the visitors from taz in the crowded reception room. they wore bright colored robes with matching
turbans. traders. men practiced in the art of selling. when he saw the excitement on delphinia s face, he feared

the worst. they had no doubt found a thing she wanted to buy. a point to begin negotiations. geoffrey was

quite sure he wanted nothing they had to sell. he wanted them gone from fernland and the sooner the better.

‘geoffrey.’ i am so anxious for you to meet the caliph. he has told me so much about his life

and he has such wonderful ideas.‘ delphinia was aglow with enthusiasm. ‘has he told you where they plan to settle

now taz has been taken from them?‘ geoffrey asked, his face shadowed with suspicion, ‘no, we have not spoken of

that. but we have spoken of his first impressions of fernland, were you aware that with a little work we

could make river s end into an estuary? we could harbor large ships on king s lake. even a royal

barge.‘ ‘yes, of course i was aware of that,‘ king geoffrey said, wondering if this were true. ‘i never saw

the need of it.‘ ‘need? perhaps not. though it might prove convenient to have our own port and perhaps pleasurable

to have such a barge.‘ delphinia paused when she saw the anger in geoffrey s eyes. ‘we only touched on

the sub/'ect. i m sure he would feel more comfortable speaking to you about it.‘ ‘no doubt he is anxious

to get back to his ships. perhaps i will speak to him during dinner.‘ queen delphinia looked at geoffrey with

a curious expression. ‘i ve not had time to arrange a proper banquet to receive our guests, but i believe

our staff has risen to the challenge on short notice. now that you have arrived, we may announce dinner.‘ ‘fine.

please seat electra on my right.‘ a quick change of seating assignments found queen delphinia on geoffrey s left and

electra on his right. queen delphinia had hoped to speak to electra during dinner. she had thought of several more

reasons that spoke against electra s plan to attend a school of medicine. she assumed that king geoffrey had asked

that she be seated next to him for the same reason. she hoped he had thought of a good argument

to dissuade their daughter from this latest foolishness. as dinner began, electra seemed wholly concentrated on the food in front
of her. oddly, king geoffrey seemed like-minded. what had come over everyone, delphinia wondered. no one seemed inclined to conversation.
‘how do you find the soup?‘ delphinia asked king geoffrey. ‘the what?‘ ‘the soup.‘ ‘oh, yes, the soup.‘ king geoffrey

could not remember if he had tasted the soup yet. ‘quite good.‘ he tasted it and found it over salted.

delphinia tried again. ‘electra, have you thought more on our arguments against your going to a school of medicine?‘ delphinia
hoped this would encourage king geoffrey to offer any new arguments he had devised. ‘i am still sifting through them,‘
electra said. the caliph, on electra s right, looked up, interested. ‘you contemplate the study of medicine?‘ he asked. 'perhaps,'
she said, inspecting her soup. ‘had you a school in mind?‘ the caliph asked. electra looked at the caliph for

the first time. ‘i have heard praise for egina.‘ she watched for his reaction. ‘i have been to egina several

times.‘ the caliph now had the attention not only of electra, but the king and queen as well. ‘how

