when he returned to agra, telling me i must dance for him only.‘ her voice hardened. ‘but i never danced

for him, not once. and three years later he was killed in a campaign in bengal. since that time i

have had to live by my own hand. for many years now i ve lived by teaching dance to the

tavaifs in agra.‘ ‘tavaifs. muslim dancing girls. courtesans who live in beautiful houses here and entertain men. there are many
in agra and in the city of lucknow to the east.‘ kamala s tone grew vague. ‘and i teach them

other things as well.‘ ‘but why did you insult the moghul tonight? do you really believe all the things you

said?‘ ‘what i said was not a belief. i don t understand what you mean by that. things either are

or they are not. what does it matter whether we believe them? but what i did was foolish, i agree.

impulsive. i so despise the moghuls. you know, i told the moghul s prime minister this afternoon i would never

dance for arangbar, that nothing could make me, but he forced me to come anyway.‘ hawksworth s eyes narrowed, and
he dropped the shank of lamb he was holding, ‘what did you say! nadir sharif knew all along you would

refuse to dance for arangbar?‘ ‘of course he knew. and i knew arangbar would order me killed. that 5 why

i wore all my diamonds. i thought if i was to die, it must be my dharma.' she paused. ‘and

you know, it s strange but i felt nothing. except perhaps pity for my pretty little courtesans. some of them

are only girls, and i wondered who would teach them after i was gone.‘ hawksworth was no longer listening. he

was trying to remember the exact sequence of what had happened in the diwan-i-khas. he arranged it, the bastard. even
the paintings. nadir sharif played with me like a puppet. iust so he could send her here. he knew i

d try to save her. but why would he do it, and in such a way i was never supposed

to know.’ is this so--called dancer supposed to be another of his spies.’ ‘you said you worshipped a god named

shiva. i thought hindus worshiped krishna.‘ kamala looked at him with surprise. ‘you know of krishna? yes, he is the
god worshiped by the raiputs of the north. but he is a young god. lord shiva is the ancient god

of south india. he presides over the generation of life. his lingam symbolizes the male half of the force that

created the universe.‘ ‘and i suppose you re about to tell me that s the part of him you worship.‘

hawksworth kept a straight face. ‘he is revered in many aspects, including natara/', the god of the dance. but yes,

his lingam is worshiped. have you seen the round stone pillars wreathed in garlands of flowers?‘ ‘as a matter of

fact . . .‘ hawksworth paused, then looked at her sharply. ‘there was something of that sort in the porters

lodge of the customs house at surat, where my men and i were kept the morning we arrived.‘ ‘those pillars

symbolize shiva s lingam. let me tell you about it. once, back in the time of the gods, lord shiva

was burdened with unhappiness. he was bereaved of his consort and weary with his being, and he wandered into a
forest, where there were sages and their wives. but the sages scorned lord shiva, because he was haggard, and they
forsook him in his time of sadness, so he had to make his way through the forest begging alms. however,

the women of these sages felt love for him, and they left the beds of their men and followed him.

when the sages saw their wives leaving to follow shiva, they set a curse on him. their curse was that

his lingam would fall to the ground. then one day shiva did shed his lingam. and he was gone. only

his lingam remained, emerging upright from the earth. it had become stone, and it was of infinite length. all the
other gods came to worship it, and told mankind to do likewise. they said that if it was worshiped, shiva

s consort, the goddess parvati, would come to receive the lingam in her yoni, and the earth would be made

fertile. and even now we worship the stone lingam, set erect with a stone yoni as its base. we honor

them with flowers and fire and incense. shiva and parvati are a symbol of the creation of life.‘ she looked

at him, puzzling. ‘don t christians have such a symbol?‘ ‘not quite like that one.‘ hawksworth suppressed a grin. ‘i
guess the main symbol for christians is the cross,‘ ‘what do you mean?‘ ‘christians believe the son of the christian
god came down to earth and sacrificed himself on a cross. so the cross became a symbol for that act.‘

‘yes, i ve seen that symbol. iesuits wear them, covered with iewels. but i never knew its meaning.‘ kamala paused,
seeming to ponder the idea. ‘somehow though it seems very static. surely there are other symbols the christians have, symbols
more dynamic and powerful.‘ ‘i suppose christians think it s pretty powerful,‘ ‘but don t christians have any symbols like
our bronze statues of the dancing shiva? lord shiva, in his aspect as natarai, the god of the dance, embodies
everything in the world.‘ ‘that s what you said to arangbar.‘ hawksworth examined her and tried to clear his mind
of the wine. ‘but i don t understand why you think symbols are so important, whatever their meaning.‘ ‘symbols are
a visible sign of things we know but can t actually see, like an idea.‘ kamala s voice was soft

and warm. ‘all right. but it s hard to imagine how one symbol could contain everything, no matter what it

is,‘ ‘but the dancing shiva does, my handsome feringhi. perhaps you have not seen it. it came out of

