me. it smelled good but i wasn t hungry. he closed the curtains and left the room immediately without looking
at me again. i so badly wanted to ask what he wanted from me, but i was anohure hour dragged

past and bridget or rather angela, opened the door. she had a gun in her hand and pointed it at

me as she walked closer. this girl seemed capable of murder, and i was terrified. my heart raced and my
palms were sweating. this is it, i thought. this is the end of you, valerie. i closed my eyes and

but she didn t pull the trigger. instead, she roughly yanked me out of bed with the gun held to

my head. ‘don t try anything. i swear i will shoot you and leave you here to die, you hear

me?’ she i nodded, relieved to be alive. she took me to the loo. survival mode kicked in and i

took in as much as possible of everything that i saw around me, but there wasn t much to see,

the hallway was extremely short and all the doors were closed. the loo was the first door to the left;

there was one ohure door to the right and one straight ahead. she pushed me through the door and waited

in the entrance for me, turned sideways. it was a small bathroom, with only a shower, a toilet and a

single basin. there weren t any windows, only an extraction fan. at least it was clean and i appreciated the
visit; it was high time. it took a while to calm down and for the feeling of the gun against

my head to go away after she had left. but then i thought about beniamin again, and alex. maybe it

was a good thing that i had been captured and possibly on my way to the butcher. at least everybody

else would be safe from now on. beniamin had died because of me, because i had broken my promise to

him and betrayed him. and to think that he still came after me to protect me. he had risked his

life for me. and he had lost it because of me. and alex. duncan probably had alex imprisoned somewhere and
was most likely going to kill him. after all, alex s connection was with the sun. a part of me

felt incredibly impressed, about alex and the sun. it felt right, it fitted him perfectly. he was that kind of
person. to me, the sun meant warmth and life and power and steadiness, and that was alex. that absolutely was
alex! i was proud at the thought of alex being the sun. a spark of hope ignited in my insides.

maybe alex was strong enough, with the sun s power at his service, to win duncan over. or /'ust to

get away. but then i remembered that alex was in a coma. he wouldn t be able to defend himself.

i didn t want alex to die. and i didn t want benaimin to have died. alex had been so

kind to me, so patient. he obviously knew exactly what was going on with me, how i struggled. i thought
about our first meeting, how he tried to warn me against the parking, a complete stranger warning a first year,
and how he had unloaded my car. then i thought about the party, about him being so popular, and how

he d played the guitar so well that he had the room under a spell. he was such an unbelievable

person, so talented and intelligent and popular and beautiful and... and... and everything that i had ever wanted in a
guy. he truly was the essence of the sun. if only i could hear him speak once more, to see

if he was fine. or see him play that guitar again. it struck me that alex mattered to me. a

lot. i let the thought float a little in my mind, like a soap bubble in the bath. i liked

alex. there, it was out, i had finally admitted it to myself. i liked alex a lot, too much actually.

i was in too far. so i firmly put the thought out of my mind. i had vowed more than

once to leave alex alone. and even if by some miracle things happened to go back to normal, i wouldn

t go near him. no, i had already betrayed lisa once, i would never do it again. but even that

miracle was impossible. alex was going to die as well, if duncan hadn t managed to kill him already, the
thought was too much for me; it felt as if the sorrow was too big for my body. i cried

as if the world was ending. how i hated myself. i couldn t believe what i had done to everyone.

the worst part was the remorse. i literally spent hours and hours hating myself for what i had done,’ crying
didn t help at all. after a while the tears dried up. i deserved to die. i didn t care

about angela and her gun any more. i wouldn t be scared next time she came. i fell asleep for

the first time around f9ur in the morning. it became the pattern: duncan came in once a day with a

tray of food and a glass of water. angela came in three times a day and took me to the

loo at gunpoint. by the end of the third day, there wasn t any emotion left, only an infinitely big
nothingness. on the morning of the fourth day, i felt much worse than before, physically and emotionally. the pain in
my leg was killing me and my ankles were throbbing from the restraints they had put on me: my sugar

was obviously low and my hands were trembling. and i had a headache, probably because i was dehydrated. duncan came
in during the late morning, around ten. i was hopeful for an extra glass of water when he entered.

