to her request to visit his ship. it probably wasn t a good idea at all. a warship, frozen in

the ice, with no proper heating definitely wasn t the right place for a woman to be. and dalarlj was

far enough from stockholm to render it impossible to return home the same day. but of course, that was probably
why he had agreed to this in the first place. he would have to let her stay on the ship

over night, and that thought intrigued him. it held possibilities indeed. anna, on the other hand, or horse, was having
almost the same thought. for her, the british captain held possibilities in several ways. he was a handsome, dashing man
for one, but most of all he had a powerful warship under his command. a warship, furthermore, belonging to a
powerful country, a country which not only ruled the oceans of the world, but also was a bitter enemy of

france. as was the king of sweden. seeing the captain glance at her again, she smiled. they arrived at dalarﬁ
shortly after sunset, riding their horses all the way onto the ice to the frigate. lieutenant reeman, who was officer
of the deck, greeted them with a puzzled expression on his face. ‘welcome back, sir, um,.,and,,,‘ ‘thank you, mr, reeman,
now, as you can see we have a visitor tonight, miss anna wetterstrand. pray send word to the galley to

prepare a suitable supper in, say, one hour?‘ ‘aye aye, sir.‘ reeman disappeared. baker offered anna his arm. ‘i think,
it being all dark, we will make the tour of the ship tomorrow morning.’ and now proceed directly into the

great cabin?‘ ‘of course, you are the captain,‘ anna smiled. it wasn t exactly warm in the great cabin. extending

over the complete width of the ship it was by far the biggest room aboard. its backside was covered by

big windows which, had it not been dark, would have presented a spectacular view over the snowy islands surrounding the
anchorage. along the windows stretched a cushioned bench which after the long ride on horseback seemed utterly inviting. there was
even a table and a couple of chairs as well as a desk. against the forward bulkhead, on either side,

were two small cabins, separated by walls of canvas covered wooden frames. ‘the one on the port side is my

sleeping cabin,‘ baker explained. ‘which i, of course, will vacate for you to use.‘ anna smiled at him, her hand
squeezing his arm slightly. ‘thank you, captain.‘ ‘um, yes, on the other side is the chart room, where, well, the
nautical charts are kept.‘ anna nodded. ‘well now, miss, would you like to sit with me on the bench there

and we will have some wine?‘ ‘oh, yes please.‘ anna beamed. she took off her cape, putting it on the

bench and sat down next to it. immediately she felt chilly. ‘it s quite cold in here, don t you

think?‘ she asked. captain baker nodded. ‘yes, i am sorry about that. but it is not easy to warm up

a wooden ship. we have the braziers of course, but the cabin is big and the hull,,,well the walls are

not very thick.‘ he hesitated. ‘perhaps i should not have brought you here. it is really not a place for

a woman.‘ anna sighed. ‘dear captain. it was me who wanted to come here. so don t worry. just get

us the wine you promised and then we will sit here and pull this cape around us for warmth.‘ baker

swallowed. ‘very well, i will get the wine.‘ ‘i really was starving,‘ tapper said to the man on the opposite

side of the table as he dug into his stew. they sat in one of the numerous small taverns of

the old town and the man who had brought tapper here was, of course, gray. tapper gulped down the rest

of his beer and wiped his mouth with his sleeve. ‘now, mister, what do you want me to help you

with,‘ he asked. gray smiled at him. ‘are you not at all curious about how i found you down there?‘

tapper frowned. ‘yes, perhaps i am. but i m yet more interested to know what you want from me. i

m a sailor, mister, not a spy.‘ ‘i know that, bosun. yet you were definitely spying recently or you wouldn

t have been down there...‘ tapper blushed. ‘alright, but it wasn t really for my own sake. i was...,‘ he

stopped himself. ‘you were trying to help miss anna, were you not?‘ tapper s mouth fell open, ‘what do you

know about her?‘ gray took a sip of his beer. indicating tapper s empty mug he said: ‘you want another

one, bosun?‘ ‘i d rather have you answer my question.‘ gray laughed. ‘all right, bosun. let me iust make this

clear: in this line of work, we do not tell people too much. it isn t good for us and

it isn t good for them, either. so iust be assured that i know miss anna very well. actually she

came to me asking for help finding you.‘ tapper s eyes widened. ‘she did? why isn t she with you

then?‘ gray shrugged. ‘we didn t find you so she went to turn the case over to the police.‘ ‘but

then you found me...‘ ‘not really. i knew where you were all along.‘ tapper took a deep breath. he was

beginning to get angry with this man. ‘listen, mister, if you did know it all the time, why did you

let me rot down there for so long? why didn t you get me out right away?‘ gray looked at

him calmly, ‘two reasons: first i needed to make sure your two rebels weren t around. second: i couldn t

have anna around either.‘ ‘why the hell not.‘ tapper almost shouted. ‘because i need her to think you are not

a free man.‘ tapper sat speechless. ‘look, bosun, are you sure you don t want another beer?‘ captain baker

