companies operations to make sure they were managing their loans prudently. again, since the prospectus emphasized they were specialists in
overseas investment, i assumed that maybe part of the reason they were coming to the u.s. was to oversee the

fapanese companies doing business here with money borrowed from back home. nobody had actually told me this. in fact nobody
had told me anything. that was merely what i considered to be an educated guess. it was the only thing

i could think of that made the slightest sense. the following monday morning i told myself the guesswork was over.

it was high time i went up and saw for myself what they were doing. all i needed was an

excuse, then the phone rang. i was in the garden out back, skimming the times and working on a pot

of fresh coffee while waiting for the chicago exchanges to open. ben was cruising the fence line, sniffing for cats.

when i picked up the receiver, waiting at the other end was mr. yasuhiro tanaka, office manager for the new

york operation. he chatted a bit about the weather, how nice it was to be working in the u.s., the

usual, finally he mentioned that he needed to meet with me to discuss, among other matters, certain legal questions concerning

one of the other leases in their building. would it be convenient if he came down to my place and

we went over the paperwork? not necessary, i replied. i iust happened to be headed for midtown in the next

few minutes. i d throw a copy of the leases into my briefcase and drop by to see him. then

before he could protest, i mumbled something about the doorbell and hung up. the phone rang again immediately, but i

didn t answer it. i was already putting on my iacket. i scribbled a few notes for emma, taped them

to her word processor, and headed out the door. minutes later i was in their third avenue lobby, greeting the

new security staff, several of whom, as a favor to tanaka, i d interviewed for their iobs. then i took

the elevator up to dni s offices on the eleventh floor and proceeded to have my argyle socks blown away.

first off, top security. the entryway iust off the elevator bank had been completely transformed. tv intercom, steel doors-it could
have been the vault at chase. i told the camera s eye who i was and then waited while a

computer somewhere gave me a voice-id check. how they managed to have me in the system already i wasn t

exactly sure . . . maybe they d taken it off the phone? after i d cleared that, the doors

slid open and i entered the first chamber of a two-room security check. an electronic voice ordered me to put

my briefcase into the x-ray machine while i proceeded through the metal detector. that cleared, the set of steel panels

leading into the next room slid open and i went in . . . to be confronted by two crew-cut

guards who could have been retired sumo wrestlers. as the doors clicked behind me, i took one look at dni

s welcoming committee and realized they were packing uzis, those israeli automatics that could probably cut down a tree in

about two seconds. no candy-ass .38 s for dai nippon. without ceremony they commenced a body search. it was all

very polite, but it sure as hell wasn t perfunctory. i iust stood there in astonishment while this gorilla roughly

twice my size felt me up. that indignity completed, i was now in line for the real surprise. yet another

set of steel doors opened, and there awaited the man i d been dealing with over the phone, yasuhiro tanaka.

medium build, late forties, cropped hair, automatic smile-he was noda s chief of operations for new york. he didn t

say much, just led me onto the floor, heading for his office. but he was clearly the on-site daimyo: lots

of heavy bowing from the young, white-shirted iapanese staff as we headed for the corner suite. which brings us to

the real shocker. dai nippon s floor operation looked like the flight deck of the starship enterprise. let me attempt

a brief description. in the far back was a massive nec augmented supercomputer-a half dozen off-white octagonal units about head
high, one the mainframe and the others storage modules arranged alongside in a neat row. pure power. the whole thing

was encased in a glassed room with ti assumed) critical temperature and humidity control. then out on the floor were

lines and lines of workstations. computer screens everywhere, printers running, stacks of color hard copy-pie charts, bar graphs, spreads-plus terminals
carrying every financial service offered by cable or satellite. this was /'ust the first, five-second glance. incredible, i thought. there
must be a heck of a lot more iapanese investment in the u.s. than anybody realizes. but something had to

be wrong here. why should . . . .7 finally i slowed down-tanaka was hurrying me along, clearly annoyed that

i d appeared uninvited. that s when i noticed the rest. across one wall was a line of projection tvs,

on which computer data was being scrolled. as we walked past, i noticed that each screen seemed to be under

the scrutiny of a team of analysts, who were intently studying the numbers, comparing notes, running calculations on their individual
terminals. what s this all about? i stopped before one screen and studied it a second. beneath it a small

sign said simply ‘electronics.’ the one next to it read ‘biotechnology.’ then i glanced at a couple of others. each

one covered a different industrial sector. gee, i thought, you re really out of touch, walton. who would have guessed

fapan has so much investment in manufacturing here, i didn t remember much going on besides a few joint ventures.

sure, they ve got a few auto assembly plants, that steel plant they d bought out on the coast,

