orderly, and some attendant ghaffirs, who, feasting on the remains of the effendi s supper, kept watch. for hasha was noted for its robbers. it was even rumoured

that the egregious selamlik pasha, with the sugar plantation near by -- 'trousers,‘ dicky called him when he saw him on the morrow, because of the elephantine breeks

he wore -- was not averse to sending his abyssinian slaves through the sugar-cane to waylay and rob, and worse, maybe. by five o clock next day the

inspection was over. the streets had been swept for the excellency -- which is to say saadat -- the first time in a year. the prison had been

cleaned of visible horrors, the first time in a month. the last time it was ordered there had been a riot among the starving, infested prisoners; earth had

been thrown over the protruding bones of the dear lamented dead in the cemetery; the water of the ablution places in the mosque had been changed; the ragged

policemen had new putties; the kourbashes of the tax-gatherers were hid in their yeleks; the egregious pasha wore a greasy smile, and the submudir, as he conducted fielding
-- ‘whom god preserve and honour!‘ -- through the prison and through the hospital, where goat s milk had been laid on for this especial day, smirked gently

through the bazaar above his parisian waistcoat. but fielding, as he rode on selamlik pasha s gorgeous black donkey from assiout, with its crimson trappings, knew what proportion
of improvement this ‘hankypanl-2y,‘ as dicky called it, bore to the condition of things at the last inspection. he had spoken little all day, and dicky had noticed

that his eye was constantly turning here and there, as though looking for an unwelcome something or somebody. at last the thing was over, and they were /'ust

crossing the canal, the old bahr-el-yusef, which cuts the town in twain as the river abana does damascus, when dicky saw nearing them a heavily-laden boat, a cross
between a thames house-boat and an italian gondola, being drawn by one poor raw-bone -- raw-bone in truth, for there was on each shoulder a round red place,

made raw by the unsheathed ropes used as harness. the beast s sides were scraped as a tree is barked, and the hind quarters gored as though by

a harrow, dicky was riding with the mamour of the district, fielding was a distance behind with trousers and the mudir. dicky pulled up his donkey, got off

and ran towards the horse, pale with fury; for he loved animals better than men, and had wasted his strength beating donkey-boys with the sticks they used on

their victims. the boat had now reached a point opposite the mudirieh, its stopping-place; and the raw- bone, reeking with sweat and blood, stood still and trembled, its
knees shaking with the strain /'ust taken off them, its head sunk nearly to the ground. dicky had hardly reached the spot when a figure came running to

the poor waler with a quick stumbling motion. dicky drew back in wonder, for never had he seen eyes so painful as these that glanced from the tortured

beast to himself -- staring, bulbous, bloodshot, hunted eyes; but they were blue, a sickly, faded blue; and they were english! dicky s hand was, on his pistol,

for his first impulse had been to shoot the rawbone; but it dropped away in sheer astonishment at the sight of this strange figure in threadbare dirty clothes

and riding-breeches made by shearing the legs of a long pair -- cut with an unsteady hand, for the edges were iagged and uneven, and the man s

bare leg showed above the cast-off putties of a policeman. the coat was an old khaki jacket of a .!i.DPV soldier, and, being scant of buttons, doubtful linen

showed beneath. above the hook- nose, once aristocratic, now vulture-like and shrunken like that of rameses in his glass case at ghizeh, was a tarboosh tilting forward over
the eyes, nearly covering the forehead. the figure must have been very tall once, but it was stooped now, though the height was still well above medium. hunted,

haunted, ravaged and lost, was the face, and the long grey moustache, covering the chin almost, seemed to cover an immeasurable depravity. dicky took it all in at

a glance, and wondered with a bitter wonder; for this was an englishman, and behind him and around him, though not very near him, were arabs, soudanese, and
fellaheen, with sneering yet apprehensive faces. as dicky s hand dropped away from his pistol, the other shot out trembling, graceful, eager fingers, the one inexpressibly gentlemanly thing
about him. ‘give it to me -- quick!‘ he said, and he threw a backward glance towards the approaching group -- fielding, the egregious pasha, and the rest.

dicky did not hesitate; he passed the pistol over. the lost one took the pistol, cocked it, and held it to the head of the waler, which feebly

turned to him in recognition. ‘good-bye, old man!‘ he said, and fired. the horse dropped, kicked, struggled once or twice, and was gone. ‘if you know the

