flown out of sight, she turned back to iamie and was a little shocked to see that he was already

looking at her. she realized he must have been watching her instead of the birds. nevertheless, she said, ‘that was
amazing! i ve never seen anything like that in london. did you...see them?‘ she asked, suddenly shy. ‘yes, i saw

them.‘ he said, his eyes dancing with merriment. he grinned affectionately at her in a way that made her blush.

‘you did not.-" she retorted weakly. ‘you were....watching me.‘ she said, her voice trailing off. ‘i didn t need to

watch them. i ve seen them even year along with millions of other birds, but you___you are amazing to me

with your ginger hair___‘ he brought his hand up and fingered her hair, then skimmed his fingers along her law.
‘___and your creamy skin and your lovely green eyes.‘ ‘oh.‘ she breathed. she was at a loss for words. but

this is what she wanted, wasn t it? this is why she had followed him. another gust of wind blew

those loose strands of hair across her face again and also flipped one corner of her collar completely over her
shoulder. she didn t make a move to pull it down, after all her hand was deliciously entrapped in iamie

s hand. and she knew that it would be all right to let him see her gown. if he didn

t approve, she would find out now, while they were alone, and they could go their separate ways, although it

would sadden her greatly. but if he did approve__.if it stirred him___if it enticed him__.a shiver of anticipation ran up
her spine. iamie s eyes automatically went to the bared space of her neck and chest and then the bodice

of her gown. she watched him as he studied the marvelous embroidery, an orchard scene, green grass along the waistline,
highly detailed cherry trees, birds and butterflies scattered throughout. two little beagles sat side by side on the grass. evelyn
had stitched the embroidery to perfection with the purposeful intention of attracting a suitor and when /'amie gasped, she knew
he had seen the placement of the cluster of cherries right at the peak of her breast, she didn t

stop him from staring.’ in fact her breathing deepened, emphasizing the rise and fall of her breasts in the loose
bodice. finally he raised his gaze and his eyes were smoldering. she was feeling a little dizzy herself. their eyes

met and she did nothing to break the contact. this is crazy, she thought. i am standing here with a

stranger and allowing him to hold my hand. i am allowing him to see my dress and he s going

to kiss me. i iust know it and i m going to allow him to do that too. ‘did you

do the embroidery on your gown?’ he asked. she nodded, her heart pounding. ‘ tis beautiful.‘ he said, his eyes

roving over her breasts again. ‘thank you.‘ she whispered. ‘you do know that i am not really your cousin.‘ he

said out of the blue, brushing the stray hairs off of her face with the lightest of touches. he stepped

closer to her so that his body touched hers, and she shivered, nodding dumbly, her heart beating wildly. ‘you do

know that this is absolutely insane.‘ he said, putting his arm around her and pulling her unresisting body against him.
she nodded again, smiling a little. that s exactly what i was thinking! ‘and you do know that i am

going to kiss you,‘ he said, his mouth mere centimeters from her lips. was that his way of giving her

a warning so that she could stop him if she didn t want him to kiss her? was that his

gentlemanly way? and would he stop? she didn t know and she didn t care, because right now with all

her being she wanted him to kiss her. she nodded again, her mouth slightly open, her gaze locked with him.

she could feel his heat, smell his sweat and all the other organic odors that had clung to his clothing:

horses, hay and dust, and she reveled in it. when he lowered his lips to hers, her eyes automatically closed.

his hand let go of her hand, only to hold her tighter to him with both hands now, and she

found herself reaching for him, wanting to touch him. his lips were warm and insistent, but not overly greedy, not
yet: and mindlessly she dropped the leashes, both hands now clutched his shoulders, feeling his solid muscles and strong bones
through the softness of the fabric of his shirt. then one hand slid up to the back of his neck

under his hair, it was iust as she imagined it would be, soft, thick, and luxurious. she could feel his

hands doing the same, exploring her back, stroking her hair. she felt like she was being transported to the moon,

and then he was pulling away, gasping for air. ‘oh god.‘ he groaned. he took one look at her and

she imagined she must look like a wanton. her face felt flushed; her lips swollen. but she didn t care

because he said, ‘again,’ and he kissed her again until she thought her da-dee!‘ the shriek coming from upstairs could

be heard throughout the entire house. it was quite clear that a certain little person wanted some immediate attention. robert
recognized that shriek and his head snapped up as if a scolding hand had slapped him on the back of

his head. ‘robin.‘ he said. the mood had effectively been broken, ‘oh god, i ll never be able to reach

him before he tries to come down the stairs by himself.‘ he grabbed his plate, looking for a place to

put it down. elizabeth stopped him by boldly placing her hand on his forearm. ‘will he be frightened of me

if i go up?‘ she asked, already rising and placing her plate on her chair. ‘no, he fancies pretty

