less fortunate.‘ ‘ladies who wear them?‘ ‘why, what else would they do? wear them -- of course, dear child.‘ byng made a gesture of disgust. ‘well, i call

it sickening. to me there s something so personal and intimate about clothes. i think i could kill any woman that i saw wearing clothes of yours --

of yours.‘ she laughed mockingly. ‘my beloved, you ve seen them often enough, but you haven t known they were mine; that s all.‘ ‘i didn t recognize
them, because no one could wear your clothes like you. it would be a caricature. that s a fact, iasmine.‘ she reached up and swept his cheek with

a kiss. ‘what a darling you are, little big man! yet you never make very definite remarks about my clothes.‘ he put his hands on his hips and

looked her up and down approvingly. ‘because i only see a general effect, but i always remember colour. tell me, have you ever sold your clothes to the
mart, or whatever the miserable coffin-shop is called?‘ ‘well, not directly.‘ ‘what do you mean by not directly ?‘ ‘well, i didn t sell them, but they were
sold for me,‘ she hesitated, then went on hurriedly. ‘adrian fellowes knew of a very sad case -- a girl in the opera who had had misfortune, illness,

and bad luck; and he suggested it. he said he didn t like to ask for a cheque, because we were always giving, but selling my old wardrobe

would be a sort of lucky find -- that s what he called it.‘ byng nodded, with a half-frown, however. ‘that was ingenious of fellowes, and thoughtful, too.
now, what does a gown cost, one like that you have on?‘ ‘this -- let me see. why, fifty pounds, perhaps. it s not a ball gown, of

course.‘ he laughed mockingly. ‘why, of course, and what does a ball gown cost -- perhaps?‘ there was a cynical kind of humour in his eye. ‘anything from
fifty to a hundred and fifty -- maybe,‘ she replied, with a little burst of merriment. ‘and how much did you get for the garments you had worn

twice, and then seen them suddenly grow aged in their extreme youth?‘ ‘ruddy, do not be nasty -- or scornful. i ve always worn my gowns more than
twice -- some of them a great many times, except when i detested them. and anyhow, the premature death of a gown is very, very good for trade.

that influences many ladies, of course.‘ he burst out laughing, but there was a satirical note in the gaiety, or something still harsher. ‘ we deceive ourselves and
the truth is not in us, ‘ he answered. ‘it s all such a hollow make-believe.‘ ‘what is?‘ she gazed at him inquiringly, for this mood was new

to her, she was vaguely conscious of some sort of change in him -- not exactly toward her, but a change, nevertheless. ‘the life we rich people lead

is a hollow make-believe, iasmine,' he said, with sudden earnestness. ‘i don t know what s the matter, but we re not getting out of life all we

ought to get; and we re not putting into it all we ought to put in. there s a sense of emptiness -- of famine somewhere.‘ he caught

the reflection of his face in the glass again, and his brow contracted. ‘we get sordid and sodden, and we lose the proportions of life. i wanted dick
wilberforce to do something with me the other day, and he declined. why, my dear fellow, i said, you know you want to do it? of course i

do, he answered, but i can t afford that kind of thing, and you know it. well, i did know it, but i had forgotten. i was only

thinking of what i myself could afford to do. i was setting up my own financial standard, and was forgetting the other fellows who hadn t my standard.
what s the result? we drift apart, wilberforce and i -- well, i mean wilberforce as a type. we drift into sets of people who can afford to

do certain things, and we leave such a lot of people behind that we ought to have clung to, and that we would have clung to, if we

hadn t been so much thinking of ourselves, or been so soddenly selfish.‘ a rippling laugh rang through the room. ‘boanerges -- oh, boanerges byng! owever can you
be so heloquent!‘ iasmine put both hands on his shoulders and looked up at him with that look which had fascinated him -- and so many others --

in their day. the perfume which had intoxicated him in the first days of his love of her, and steeped his senses in the sap of youth and

eden, smote them again, here on the verge of the desert before him. he suddenly caught her in his arms and pressed her to him almost roughly. ‘you
exquisite siren -- you siren of all time,‘ he said, with a note of ioy in which there was, too, a stark cry of the soul. he

