they all had acquired a portuguese license and paid duty on their cargo at some portuguese-controlled tax point. after evaluating

the risk of exposing his english frigates at the bar-where maneuverability was limited and the possibility of portuguese surprise great-brian
hawksworth had elected to unlade directly onshore from their protected anchorage north of the river mouth, the cove called swalley,
then haul the goods overland to the banks of the tapti opposite surat. there would be no risk of portuguese

interference inland and, once across from the port, the goods could be easily barged to the maidan. he turned again

toward the river and examined the town of surat from his new vantage. it was easy to see now why

this location had been chosen for the port, for here the river curved and widened, creating a natural, protected harbor,

the most conspicuous landmarks visible from across the harbor were three stone villas along the riverfront, all owned by the
shahbandar‘, and the square stone fort that stood on the downriver side of the harbor, its heavy ordnance trained perpetually

on the water. the fort was surrounded by a moat on three sides and on the fourth by the river,

entry could only be gained through a gate on the riverside, or a drawbridge that connected its entrance to the

open maidan, the square where traders congregated. the square had swarmed with merchants and brokers as they passed through, and

he had watched as two brokers stood together near its center-one from ahmedabad, up-country, and the other from surat-arguing loudly
over the price and quality of a pile of indigo. the porters explained that the surat broker was accusing the

other of mixing sand with the indigo to increase its weight, then disguising his deception by also adding enough oil

that the indigo would still float on water, the test used to establish purity of the dried extract of the

indigo leaf. as the argument grew more vigorous, hawksworth noticed the men join hands beneath a piece of cloth, where

they began negotiating the actual price by means of their fingers, a figure undoubtedly little related to the movement of

their tongues. now that the high trading season of september-ianuary had begun, surat s narrow streets were one loud bazaar,

swollen to’ almost two hundred thousand grasping traders, bargaining seamen, hawking merchants. a dozen languages stirred the air as a
motley melange of up-country indian traders, arabs, iains, parsis, persians, iews, egyptians, portuguese, and returning muslim pilgrims-every nationality known to
the indian ocean-swaggered through the garbage-sodden mud paths called streets. hawksworth gazed back at the city and reflected over the
curious events of the past three weeks. the english had, inexplicably, been received first with open hostility, and then with

suspiciously cordial deference-first by the governor, and afterward by the shahbandar. something is very wrong, he told himself. a contest
of wills is underway between the shahbandar, mirza nuruddin, and the governor, mukarrab khan. and so far, mukarrab khan seems

to be winning. or is he? six days before, the governor had suddenly reversed his policy of noninterference in port

affairs and authorized a license for the english to sell their cargo in surat and buy indian goods, something the

shahbandar‘ had found one excuse after another to delay. however, mukarrab khan had delivered this license directly to the english,
rather than forwarding it to the shahbandar through normal channels, leaving brian hawksworth the unpleasant responsibility of presenting this document
to the shahbandar in person. but the meeting turned out to be nothing like hawksworth had expected. ‘once more you

astound me, captain.’ the close, torch-lit chamber of the customs house office had fallen expectantly silent as the shahbandar drew
slowly on his hookah and squinted with his opaque, glassy eyes at the black seal of mukarrab khan affixed to

the top of the page. hawksworth had waited for a glimmer of anger at this insulting breach of port protocol-which

surely was mukarrab khan s reason for insisting the license be delivered by the english captain-general. but the shahbandar s

eyes never lost their noncommittal squint. instead he had turned to hawksworth with a cordial smile. 'your refusal to negotiate

seems to have worked remarkable dispatch with his excellency s officials. i can t recall ever seeing them act this

quickly.’ hawksworth had been amazed. how could mirza nuruddin possibly know the terms he had demanded of the governor: produce

a license for trade within ten days or the two english frigates would weigh anchor and sail; and accept english

sovereigns at bullion value rather than the prevailing discount rate of 4 1/2 percent required to circumvent 'minting time,‘ the

weeks ‘required’ by the shahbandar s minters to melt down foreign coin and re-mint it as indian rupees. no one

could have been more surprised than brian hawksworth when mukarrab khan had immediately conceded the english terms and approved the
license-valid for sixty days-to land goods, and to buy and sell. why had the governor agreed so readily, overriding the

shahbandar s dawdling clerks? 'naturally you ll need an officer here to schedule the river barks.‘ the shahbandar s voice

was even, but hawksworth thought he sensed an air of tension suddenly grip the room. ‘normally barks are reserved weeks

in advance now during the high season, but we can always accommodate friends of mukarrab khan.’ it was then that

hawksworth had told the shahbandar he would not be bringing cargo up the river, that instead it would be transported

overland from their protected anchorage using bullock carts arranged for by mukarrab khan, ‘the cove you call swalley is several

leagues up the coast, captain. foreign cargo has never before been unladed there, nor has it ever been brought overland

as you propose.' he had seemed genuinely disturbed. 'i suggest it s both irregular and unworkable.‘ 'i think you understand

why we have to unlade from the cove. the decision is made.‘ hawksworth tried to keep his voice as firm

as that of mirza nuruddin. 'we ll unload the bullock carts /'ust across the river from the port here,

