watch-chain. Philip thought the other girls looked from him to the pair at
the table and exchanged significant glances. He felt certain they were laughing at
him, and his blood boiled. He detested Mildred now with all his heart.

He knew that the 551 of 1241 Of Human 8ondage best thing he

could do was to cease coming to the tea- shop, but he could

not bear to think that he had been worsted in the affair, and

he devised a plan to show her that he despised her. Next day

he sat down at another table and ordered his tea from another waitress.
Mildred s friend was there again and she was talking to him. She

paid no attention to Philip, and so when he went out he chose

a moment when she had to cross his path: as he passed he

looked at her as though he had never seen her before. He repeated

this for three or four days. He expected that presently she would take
the opportunity to say something to him; he thought she would ask why
he never came to one of her tables now, and he had prepared

an answer charged with all the loathing he felt for her. He knew

it was absurd to trouble, but he could not help himself. She had

beaten him again. The German suddenly disappeared, but Philip still sat at other
tables. She paid no attention to him. Suddenly he realised that what he
did was a matter of complete indifference to her; he could go on

in that way till doomsday, and it would have no effect. 9 ve

not finished yet, he said to himself. The day after he sat down

in his old seat, and when she came up said good-evening as though

he had not ignored her for a week. His face was placid, but

he could not 552 of 1241 Of Human Bondage prevent the mad beating

of his heart. At that time the musical comedy had lately leaped into
public favour, and he was sure that Mildred would be delighted to go

to one. 9 say, he said suddenly, 9 wonder if you d dine

with me one night and come to The 8elle of New York. 9

ll get a couple of stalls. He added the last sentence in order

to tempt her. He knew that when the girls went to the play

it was either in the pit, or, if some man took them, seldom

to more expensive seats than the upper circle. Mildred s pale face showed
no change of expression. 9 don t mind, she said. when will you

come? 9 get off early on Thursdays. They made arrangements. Mildred lived with

an aunt at Herne Hill. The play began at eight so they must
dine at seven. She proposed that he should meet her in the second-class

waiting-room at Victoria Station. She showed no pleasure, but accepted the invitation as

though she conferred a favour. Philip was vaguely irritated. 553 of 7247 Of

Human Bondage LV99 Philip arrived at Victoria Station nearly half an hour before
the time which Mildred had appointed, and sat down in the second-class waiting-room.

He waited and she did not come. He began to grow anxious, and

walked into the station watching the incoming suburban trains; the hour which she

had fixed passed, and still there was no sign of her. Philip was

impatient. He went into the other waiting-rooms and looked at the people sitting
in them. Suddenly his heart gave a great thud. There you are. 9

thought you were never coming. 9 like that after keeping me waiting all

this time. 9 had half a mind to go back home again. But

you said you d come to the second-class waiting- room. 9 didn t

say any such thing. 9t isn t exactly likely 9 d sit in

the second-class room when 9 could sit in the first is it?

