for; very impressive the way you kept paul from leaving today.‘ rewsna had switched subjects so quickly, i had hardly
noticed. i couldn t help but ask what i d been feeling since it happened, ‘you knew i was going

to meet him, didn t you? that is why you wouldn t let me follow you off the bus earlier?‘

she didn t answer, but for the first time since i had met her, i was able to read her

the way i could everyone else, and that was exactly why she made me stay, ‘on my path,‘ to the

mall. ‘your love,‘ again she had the tiles l-o-v-e ‘for the others around you will,‘ she moved the tiles and

added an additional e-v ‘evolve to meet your destiny.‘ e-v-o-l-v-e was staring at me from the tabletop. none of what
she was saying made much sense. i looked back at the tabletop to see her playing with five new tiles.

before she could give me any new message, her lips didn t move but her voice was clear in my

head, ‘lauren, you know what you must do. i know you will figure out how. i wish you luck, but

i don t believe you will need it. you do not have to seek me Out,’ i already told you,

i will be watching you.‘ ‘rewsna, i feel so strange, as if you are the only person i can ask

questions. if i share any of this with anyone else i know, they ll think i m nuts.‘ ‘precious lauren,

you are more sensitive than any soul i ve met. you see things clearly that others wouldn t notice if

it reached up and slapped them in the face. you don t need me. the answers to your questions are

inside you and with your soul mate. make him understand the question, and he will give you the answers you
seek.‘ i knew that our meeting was over, so i thanked her, out loud, of course, and stepped out of

the cafe. i hadn t really learned anything new, but my feelings were confirmed. it s as if everything is
predetermined, but free will results in different outcomes. i looked at my watch and realized it was already two o
clock. i was supposed to meet max at three, so i made my way to the bus stop across from

the library. under a fattened nose and his shoulders were as broad as a bull s. all son of farc

wore were faded blue pants, tattered at the bottom, with a belt made out of hair. farc had worn a

similar belt, a variety of hair pulled from the heads of the ogres vanquished opponents. venir tied his long locks
back. he had no desire to become a part of the ogre s strange trophy. son of farc reached up,

grabbing the upper rim of the Cage and bounded to the top. the ogre then shoved the two armored orcs

off of the top, opened the drop-down gate and iumped inside. looking down at venir, the son of farc displayed

a smile full of rotting yellow teeth above his iutting /‘aw. above, the orcs slammed the gate down and prepared

to lower the weapon. but as a morning star was about to be lowered, farc, from the audience, made them

stop, signaling no weapon with his ?sts in the air. the crowd booed and hissed, but then farc s roar

settled them down. this ?ght was to be bare knuckles, teeth, knees, elbows, you-got-it you-use-it; /'ust the way it was
the last time. it was all venir now. no help, no brool, no choice. he cast a glance at his

friends, they all looked worried. better off dying doing something. he was dripping like a waterfall as he removed his
sweat soaked ierkin. he tried to shake the flow of blood into his fingers. he felt numb, lethargic and unprepared,
but a twinge of anger was burning somewhere. he could hear voices in the crowed shouting about the big v-shaped
tattoo on his over muscled back. vermin, vulgar, vile, villain, the mixed races had screamed, victorious said another, much to
the laughter of the others. a few coins exchanged in favor of the more formidable looking man that had beaten
farc before. the son of farc snorted, staring at his sneering father who stood on the balcony above. venir wasn

t the less experienced man farc had fought years earlier, rather different, weathered and frightening, venir looked over again at
his comrades, all pressed near the cage. mikkel gave him a puzzled look, while melegal gave him meager thumbs up.
the crowd s voices became a manageable rumble as a grey-bearded dwarf sauntered over to a bronze gong as tall

as an ogre. the ancient dwarf stared up at the royals in the bleachers, hoisting the mallet high above his

head. a tall orcen man, leaner than the rest, stood and raised his palms outward in the air. the crowd

hushed. a handful of coins clinked onto the bleachers and rattled down. venir s eyes locked of son of farc

s. there was ice in the ogre s stare, and fire behind the ice. venir could feel the rush of

blood flowing behind his ears. die doing something! the tall orc s palms knotted into big fists. two long hairy
thumbs ?icked upwards. bong! venir sprang like a panther and punched son of farc straight in the nose. the ogre
3 head rocked back with a notable crack, and first blood had been drawn. the roar of the crowd was

a dull hum in venir s pulsating ears. son of farc was holding his broken nose, furious, swatting his long

arms back and forth, and forcing venir to dodge away. venir watched as the ogre grinned, smearing the dripping blood
with his forearm along his chin. now, ogre beckoned to the man with his ?nger. the crowd went wild. venir

s hand ached and he realized it was going to be a hard and dirty ?ght. the two circled

