that demanded a pen. or because my handwriting has changed. and so a larger proportion of my notebook is filled

with the dream. still, every time i begin to write a dream, i know mine is only a clumsy and

approximate translation; i feel i am betraying the original. walter beniamin says: the narration of dreams brings calamity, because a
person still half in league with the dream world betrays it in his words and must incur its revenge, expressed

in more modern terms: he betrays himself. he has outgrown the protection of dreaming nalveté, and in laying clumsy hands
on his dream visions he surrenders himself. for only from the far bank, from broad daylight, may dream be recalled

with impunity. {beniamin 1978: 62) betrayal , calamity : these words describe the feeling of trying to write, let alone
interpret, a dream. still, as a great deal of writing arouses a fear or suspicion of betrayal or calamity, to

write one s dreams is to learn to face writing s darker dimensions, the language of writing about dreams, the

language of dreams i am in this place that is and is not. something like but not exactly. like some

kind of. the person is and is not. now i think it was x but it was not. iust an

image, my mohure looking very pretty. apparently. seemingly. i wake making sounds of anguish, this weird unpleasant state, something happens
here. a sense of peaceful scented gardens. some suggestion of. i was writing a sequel. in this dream i am

asleep and dreaming. dreams of nakedness and of clothes: sarongs and a beautiful dress, silken. dreams of loss and being

lost. of wonderful places, so very many wonderful places, places to remember and miss, places that are dream settings. of
children, and childbirth, many of these dreams over many years, the unborn and the newborn and the infants. of old
friends i am pleased to find turn up in my dreams. of people i meet only in my dreams. or

a Wry frﬂpy human-ish little creature i try to kill. or yet anohure dream lover. a woman who writes is

a woman who dreams about children. our dream children are innumerable dreams about blood, menstruating and blood everywhere, all over
the stairs and splashing all over the walls, my blood. blood pouring from my eyes.’ a dream i record only

with a drawing. looking at these accounts of my dreams. these wonderful phrases and images, marvels, marvellous moments. yes, call
it the poetry of the soul. no wonder writers want to publish books of their dreams. but don t. don

t tell your dreams. please. no one will experience your dream the way you did. you might say, no one

will experience anything the way you did, but the re-telling of a dream is a stark experience of the limits

of language s ability to communicate experience. in order to go to the school of dreams, something must be displaced,
starting with the bed. one has to get going. this is what writing is, starting off. it has to do

with activity and passivity. this does not mean one will get there. writing is not arriving; most of the time

it s not arriving. one must go on foot, with the body. one has to go away, leave the self.

how far must one not arrive in order to write, how far must one wander and wear out and have

pleasure? one must walk as far as the night. one s own night, walking through the self toward the dark,

(cixous 1993: 65} the self, then. what dreams teach you is what dreams are. how could you bear to never

remember your dreams, as some claim? the self is a creature that dreams and meets itself in these dreams. yes,

this is mysterious. what comes up when you start writing are all the scenes of impotence, terror, or vast power.

the unconscious tells a tale of the supernatural possibility... dreams teach us. they teach us to write. the writing lessons

of dreams, says helene cixous, are these: without transition. speed. the lost mysteries. the magic word . but of course.

you learn these first by writing your dreams, there is no explanation to take you from one scene to anohure,

you do not need permissions or reasons or visas to enter the dream territory, you are there, write like that,

in dreams,,, the feeling of foreignness is absolutely pure, and this is the best thing for writing, foreignness becomes a
fantastic nationality. a dream does not need to introduce and explain, does not need to set it up before it

begins. you are there and it is happening. write like that. there is an experience of the mystery you have

forgotten how to see in everyday life. there are the magic words, the images or sounds that are the force

of the dream, never mind why. write like that. it ends when it is over. write like that. dreams remind

us of mysteries, human existence, experience and selfhood have a dimension of mystery that the writer is well-advised to be
well-acquainted with, so that the whole of her reality, not only the obvious and easily expressed, has a place in

the world of her writing, i have found that in the world of dreams the complexity of characters as aspects

of oneself are revealed. i begin to write a new draft of my novel and i know, my novel will

have dreams in the title. my novel will have dreams in it. my characters are dreaming their dreams and they

are in my dreams. and then i read this arresting passage in an impressive new novel descriptions of dreams have

a dubious place in storytelling. for these are dreams that have been imagined - dreamed up , to be slotted

in. a story can be made up. how can a dream be made up? by not rising of its own

free will from the unconscious it sets a note of falsity, merely illustrating something dream-like which maybe why dream

