what else was going on in that mind? the sense of the night closing in? do not go gentle, please,

stay awhile with me. she got up and went over to the record cabinet. her mother still had her collection

of old 33s, today they Were called vinyl, with conductors from decades ago like bruno walter and arturo toscanini. she
found a ianacek string quartet, no. 2, a rare mono pressing by the old budapest string quartet fifty years ago,

and put it on the turntable, still loving those first crackling sounds that raise your anticipation, she remembered how nina
would put on a record in the evening, after dinner, with room-temperature scotch in hand, and make the family sit
and listen. she suspected that had a lot to do with her own desire to play the violin herself someday.

and then, in high school, she started lessons. better late than never. now, though, she sensed there was something nina
wanted to tell her and this was her way of setting the stage. after the music had played for almost

three minutes, nina listening with eyes closed as though in a rapture as the movement clawed its way toward an
initial theme in an elusive minor mode, she turned and looked at ally. ‘he didn t tell you he came

to see me, did he? seth?' 'i guess he forgot,‘ ally said. it was a lie neither of them believed.

‘i ve been thinking over all he was trying to say. i didn t get everything at the time, but

i guess my feeble mind was recording it. now it s all coming back. he was talking about arthur and

his suicide-ally, we both know that s what it was-and how he felt responsible and how he was finally going

to be able to make up for all the harm he d done to me, and to you. but he

was worried you might not want to go along with this special treatment for me.‘ she was studying ally, as
though searching for an answer. maria had discreetly departed for the kitchen. ‘he kept talking about this doctor he knew.
at this clinic. he swore this man could perform a miracle for me, he said i should do it, whether

you approved or not.‘ ally looked at her, wondering what to say. this was getting too devious for words, then
nina went on. ‘i ll probably not remember anything about this by tomorrow, but i just wanted to tell you,

when you get as mentally addled as i am now, you compensate by developing your other senses, i call it

your sixth sense. and ally, i think he s involved in something that s evil. and he wants to draw

me into it, maybe both of us.‘ she stopped carefully framing her words. ‘i sensed a kind of desperation about

him. i don t know exactly what it was.‘ as ally listened the ianacek quartet swelling in the room, scratches

and all, she felt more and more like an utter dunce. she hadn t caught any of this in grant

s come-on, but now . . . nina was right about that sixth sense. but what could the real story

be? grant was more a simple con artist than some embodiment of evil. think the music man in designer threads,
not darth vader. evil was surely too strong a word he was iust the consummate self-promoting hustler. the troubling part
was, he was so damned good at it. ‘mom, you re wonderful today. why don t we all three go

somewhere for brunch now? right now. there s a new french place /'ust down columbus that needs checking out,‘ she
had an eerie foreboding it might be their last chance. ‘no, honey, you brought some smoked fish, didn t you?

that s all i want.‘ nina dismissed the idea with a wave of her hand. ‘besides, no one in this

town knows how to brew a proper pot of tea.‘ then, the next thing ally knew, she was back to

musing out loud about grant. ‘i can t stop wondering. he said this doctor he knows might work a miracle

for me. what am i supposed to think?‘ ally was trying to decide whether a glimmer of hope, even though

it was almost certainly false, might be a healthy tonic for nina /'ust now. ‘mom, grant gave me some materials
about that doctor, i ll read them tonight, i promise.‘ she was listening to the ianacek quartet soar, and it

was bucking her up. ‘let me see what i can find out.‘ ‘he wants me to start in right away,‘

nina pressed. ‘i think he said there are some studies going on at this clinic, but they re almost over.

it s free now, and unless i go soon, i can t get in the program. he said he would

take me out there monday morning if i wanted. but if i go with anybody, i want it to be

you.‘ he s such a bastard, ally thought. she glanced at maria, who d been watching from the kitchen door

and listening to all that had happened. she was looking very upset and she motioned ally toward the doorway with
her eyes. ‘let me get a glass of water, mom.‘ she headed for the kitchen, ‘did you hear all the

things she s talking about?‘ she asked when they were out of earshot, maria nodded, 'a lot of what your

mother said is true. it was very strange. at the time she acted like she didn t understand him. now

i realize she did. or maybe it all iust came back to her.‘ ‘what do you think is really 30”’!

on?‘ ally was studying her, hoping to get at the truth. ‘she seems a lot better today.‘ maria paused a

moment, ‘miss hampton, i don t believe your mother is going to be with us much longer. i saw my

own go through much the same thing. there s always a glimmer iust before ...‘ she looked down and

