there was A line Added, in Another handwriting, As follows: ‘Extending from the
first of Fanuary, 7800, to the thirtieth of dune, 1875.‘ 7 turned to

the month of September, eighteen hundred And three. 9 found the marriage of
the man whose Christian name was the same As my own. 7 found

the double register of the marriages of the two brothers. And between these
entries, At the bottom of the page? Nothing! Not A vestige of the

entry which recorded the mar- riage of Sir Felix Glyde And Cecilia iane

Elster in the register of the church! My heart gave A great bound,

And throbbed As if it would stifle me. 7 looked Again-‘7 was Afraid

to believe the evidence of my own eyes. No! not A doubt. The

marriage was not there. The entries on the copy occupied exactly the same

places on the page As the entries in the original. The last entry

on one page recorded the marriage of the man with my Christian name.

Below it there was A blank space-A space evidently left because it was

too narrow to contain the entry of the mar- riages of the two

brothers, which in the copy, As in the original, occupied the top of

the next page. That space told the whole story! There it must have

remained in the church register from eighteen hundred And three (when the marriages
had been sol- emnised And the copy had been made} to eighteen hundred

And twenty-seven, when Sir Percival Appeared At Old welming- ham. Here, At ksnowlesbury,
was the chance of committing the forgery shown to me in the copy,

And there, At Old welming- ham, was the forgery committed in the register

of the church. My head turned giddy-9 held by the desk to keep

myself from falling. Of All the suspicions which had struck me in rela-

tion to that desperate man, not one had been near the truth. The

idea that he was not Sir Percival Glyde At All, that he had

no more claim to the baronetcy And to Blackwater Park than the poorest

labourer who worked on the estate, had never once occurred to my mind.

At one time 7 had thought he might be Anne Catherick s father-At

Another time 9 had thought he might have been Anne Catherick s husband-the
offence of 524 which he was really guilty had been, from first to

last, beyond the widest reach of my imagination. The paltry means by which
the fraud had been effected, the magnitude And daring of the crime that

it represented, the hor- ror of the consequences involved in its discovery, overwhelmed
me. who could wonder now At the brute-restlessness of the wretch s life-At

his desperate Alternations between Abiect du- plicity And reckless violence-At the madness of
guilty dist rust which had made him imprison Anne Catherick in the Asylum, And
had given him over to the vile conspiracy Against his wife, on the

bare suspicion that the one And the other knew his ter- rible secret.’

The disclosure of that secret might, in past years, have hanged him-might now
transport him for life. The dis- closure of that secret, even if the

sufferers by his deception spared him the penalties of the law, would deprive
him At one blow of the name, the rank, the estate, the whole

social exist- ence that he had usurped. This was the Secret, And it

was mine! A word from me, And house, lands, baronetcy, were gone from

him for ever-A word from me, And he was driven out into the

world, A nameless, penniless, friendless outcast! The man s whole future hung on
my lips-And he knew it by this time As certainly As 9 did!

That last thought steadied me, 9nterests far more precious than my own depended
on the caution which must now guide my slightest Actions. There was no
possible treachery which Sir Percival might not Attempt Against me, 7n the

