you last, friend tomlinson.‘ it was well that they had not very far to go, for the boat was weighed down almost to the edge, and it took

the baling of two men to keep in check the water which leaked in between the shattered planks. when all were safely in their places. captain ephraim savage
swung himself aboard again, which was but too easy now that every minute brought the bows nearer to the water. he came back with a bundle of clothing
which he threw into the boat. ‘push off-" he cried. ‘lump in, then.‘ ‘ephraim savage goes down with his ship,’ said he quietly. ‘friend tomlinson, it is not
my way to give my orders more than once. push off, i say!‘ the mate thrust her out with a boat-hook. amos and de catinat gave a cry

of dismay, but the stolid new englanders settled down to their oars and pulled off for the iceberg. ‘amos! amos! will you suffer it?‘ cried the guardsman in
french. ‘my honour will not permit me to leave him thus. i should feel it a stain for ever.‘ ‘tomlinson, you would not leave him! go on board

and force him to come.‘ ‘the man is not living who could force him to do What he had no mind for.‘ ‘he may change his purpose.‘ ‘he

never changes his purpose.‘ ‘but you cannot leave him, man! you must at least lie by and pick him up.‘ ‘the boat leaks like a sieve,‘ said the

mate. ‘i will take her to the berg, leave you all there, if we can find footing, and go back for the captain. put your heart into it,

my lads, for the sooner we are there the sooner we shall get back.‘ but they had not taken fifty strokes before adele gave a sudden scream. ‘my

god!‘ she cried, ‘the ship is going down!‘ she had settled lower and lower in the water, and suddenly with a sound of rending planks she thrust down

her bows like a diving water-fowl, her stern flew up into the air, and with a long sucking noise she shot down swifter and swifter until the leaping
waves closed over her high poop lantern. with one impulse the boat swept round again and made backwards as fast as willing arms could pull it. but all

was quiet at the scene of the disaster. not even a fragment of wreckage was left upon the surface to show where the golden rod had found her

last harbour. for a long quarter of an hour they pulled round and round in the moonlight, but not a glimpse could they see of the puritan seaman,

and at last, when in spite of the balers the water was washing round their ankles, they put her head about once more, and made their way in

silence and with heavy hearts to their dreary island of refuge. desolate as it was, it was their only hope now, for the leak was increasing and it

was evident that the boat could not be kept afloat long. as they drew nearer they saw with dismay that the side which faced them was a solid

wall of ice sixty feet high without a flaw or crevice in its whole extent. the berg was a large one, fifty paces at least each way, and

there was a hope that the other side might be more favourable. baling hard, they paddled round the corner, but only to find themselves faced by another gloomy
ice-crag. again they Went round, and again they found that the berg increased rather than diminished in height. there remained only one other side, and they knew as
they rowed round to it that their lives hung upon the result, for the boat was almost settling down beneath them. they shot out from the shadow into

the full moonlight and looked upon a sight which none of them would forget until their dying day. the cliff which faced them was as precipitous as any
of the others, and it glimmered and sparkled all over where the silver light fell upon the thousand facets of ice. right in the centre, however, on a

level with the water s edge, there was what appeared to be a huge hollowed-out cave which marked the spot where the golden rod had, in shattering herself,
dislodged a huge boulder, and so amid her own ruin prepared a refuge for those who had trusted themselves to her. this cavern was of the richest emerald
green, light and clear at the edges, but toning away into the deepest purples and blues at the back. but it was not the beauty of this grotto,

ho!‘ was it the assurance of rescue which brought a cry of toy and of wonder from every lip, but it was that, seated upon an ice boulder

and placidly smoking a long corn-cob pipe, there was perched in front of them no less a person than captain ephraim savage of boston. for a moment the
castaways could almost have believed that it was his wraith, were wraiths ever seen in so homely an attitude, but the tones of his voice very soon

