caused them to stumble in their ways from the ancient paths, to walk in paths, in a way not cast

up .' to make their land desolate, and a perpetual hissing .' every one that passeth thereby shall be astonished,

and wag his head. 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 1652 eeremiah

1.9 9 will scatter them as with an east wind before the enemy ; 9 will show them the back,

and not the face, in the day of their calamity. The People s Plots and ﬁeremiah s Prayer Then said

they, Come, and let us devise devices against tleremiah ,' for the law shall not perish from the priest, nor

counsel from the wise, nor the word from the prophet. dome, and let us smite him with the tongue, and

let us not give heed to any of his words. Give heed to me, O Lord, and hearken to the

voice of them that contend with me. Shall evil be recompensed for good ? for they have digged a pit

for my soul. Remember that 9 stood before thee to speak good for them, and to turn away thy wrath

from them. Therefore deliver up their children to the famine, and pour out their blood by the force of the

sword ; and let their wives be bereaved of their children, and be widows .' and let their men be

put to death ; let their young men be slain by the sword in battle. Let a cry be heard

from their houses, when thou shalt bring a troop suddenly upon them : for they have digged a pit to

take me, and hid snares for my feet. Yet, Lord, thou knowest all their counsel against me to slay me

: forgive not their iniquity, neither blot out their sin from thy sight, but let them be overthrown before thee

I deal thus with them in the time of thine anger. 19 The Lesson from the Broken Vessel Thus saith

the Lord, Go and get a potter s earthen bottle, and take of the ancients of the people, and of

the ancients of the priests ; and go forth unto the valley of the son of Hinnom, which is by

the entry of the east gate, and proclaim there the words that 9 shall tell thee : 77 18 19

20 21 22 23 1 2 1653 ﬂeremiah 19 and say, Hear ye the word of the Lord, 0 kings

of 9udah, and inhabitants of ﬂerusalem ; Thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of 9srael .' Behold, 9

will bring evil upon this place, the which whosoever heareth, his ears shall tingle. Because they have forsaken me, and
have estranged this place, and have burned incense in it unto other gods, whom neither they nor their fathers have
known, nor the kings of Fudah, and have filled this place with the blood of innocents ; they have built

also the high places of Baal, to burn their sons with fire for burnt offerings unto Baal, which 9 commanded

not, nor spake it, neither came it into my mind : therefore, behold, the days come, saith the Lord, that

this place shall no more be called Tophet, nor The valley of the son of Hinnom, but The valley of

slaughter. And 9 will make void the counsel of Fudah and ﬂerusalem in this place ,' and 9 will cause

them to fall by the sword before their enemies, and by the hands of them that seek their lives .'

and their carcasses will 9 give to be meat for the fowls of the heaven, and for the beasts of

the earth. And 9 will make this city desolate, and a hissing ; every one that passeth thereby shall be

astonished and hiss, because of all the plagues thereof. And 9 will cause them to eat the flesh of their

sons and the flesh of their daughters, and they shall eat every one the flesh of his friend in the

siege and straitness, wherewith their enemies, and they that seek their lives, shall straiten them. Then shalt thou break the
bottle in the sight of the men that go with thee, and shalt say unto them, Thus saith the Lord

of hosts ; Even so will 9 break this people and this city, as one breaketh a potter s vessel,

that cannot be made whole again .' and they shall bury them in Tophet, till there be no place to

bury. Thus will 9 do unto this place, saith the Lord, and to the inhabitants thereof, and even make this

city as Tophet .- 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 70 11 12 1654 Feremiah 20 and the houses

of tierusalem, and the houses of the kings of tludah, shall be defiled as the place of Tophet, because of

all the houses upon whose roofs they have burned incense unto all the host of heaven, and have poured out

drink offerings unto other gods. Then came Feremiah from Tophet, whither the Lord had sent him to prophesy ; and
he stood in the court of the Lord s house, and said to all the people, Thus saith the Lord

of hosts, the God of 9srael I 8ehold, 9 will bring upon this city and upon all her towns all

the evil that 9 have pronounced against it, because they have hardened their necks, that they might not hear my
words, 20 The Curse on Pashur for 9mprisoning Feremiah Now Pashur the son of 9mmer the priest, who was also
chief governor in the house of the Lord, heard that tleremiah prophesied these things. Then Pashur smote ﬂeremiah the prophet,
and put him in the stocks that were in the high gate of 8en/'amin, which was by the house of

the Lord. And it came to pass on the morrow, that Pashur brought forth ﬂeremiah out of the stocks. Then

said ﬂeremiah unto him, The Lord hath not called thy name Pashur, but Magor-missabib [fear round about]. For thus saith
the Lord, Eehold, 9 will make thee a terror to thyself, and to all thy friends : and they shall

fall by the sword of their enemies, and thine eyes shall behold it : and 9 will give all 9udah

into the hand of the king of 8abylon, and he shall carry them captive into 8abylon, and shall slay them

with the sword, Moreover 9 will deliver all the strength of this city, and all the labors thereof, and all

the precious things thereof, and all the treasures of the kings of Fudah will 9 give into the hand

