in other questions, and had simply forgotten the 8oard of

7rrigation. ‘it went of itself, like all such boards, by

the mere force of inertia. (Many people gained their livelihood

by the Board of 9r;-igation, especially one highly conscientious and
musical family: all the daughters played on stringed instruments, and
Alexey Alexandrovitch knew the family and had stood godfather to
one of the elder daughters.) The raising of this question

by a hostile department was in Alexey Alexandrovitch s opinion

a dishonorable proceeding, seeing that in every department there were
things similar and worse, which no one inquired into, for

Well-known reasons of official etiquette. However, now that the glove
had been thrown down to him, he had boldly picked

it up and demanded the appointment of a special commission

to investigate and verify the working of the Board of

9:-rigation of the lands in the Zaraisky province. But in
compensation he gave no quarter to the enemy either. He

demanded the appointment of another special commission to inquire into
the question of the Native Tribes Organization Committee. The question
of the Native Tribes had been 624 of 1759 Anna

Karenina brought up incidentally in the Commission of the 2nd

of ﬂune, and had been pressed forward actively by Alexey
Alexandrovitch as one admitting of no delay on account of

the deplorable condition bf the native tribes, 7n the commission

this question had been a ground of contention between several
departments. The department hostile to Alexey Alexandrovitch proved that the
condition of the native tribes was exceedingly flourishing, that the
proposed reconstruction might be the ruin of their prosperity, and
that if there were anything wrong, it arose mainly from

the failure on the part of Alexey Alexandrovitch s department

to carry out the measures prescribed by law. Now Alexey
Alexandrovitch intended to demand: First, that a new commission should
be formed which should be empowered to investigate the condition

of the native tribes on the spot: secondly, if it

should appear that the condition of the native tribes actually

was such as it appeared to be from the official

documents in the hands of the committee, that another new

scientific commission should be appointed to investigate the deplorable condition
of the native tribes from the-(1) political, (2) administrative, {3}
economic, {4} ethnographical, (5) material, and {6} religious points of
view; thirdly, that evidence should be required from the 625

of 1759 Anna Karenina rival department of the measures that

had been taken during the last ten years by that

department for averting the disastrous conditions in which the native
tribes were now placed; and fourthly and finally, that that
department explain why it had, as appeared from the evidence

before the committee, from No. 17,015 and 78,038, from December

5, 7863, and ﬂune 7, 7864, acted in direct contravention

of the intent of the law T...Act 18, and the

note to Act 36. A flash of eagerness suffused the

face of Alexey Alexandrovitch as he rapidly wrote out a

synopsis of these ideas for his own benefit. Having filled

a sheet of paper, he got up, rang, and sent

a note to the chief secretary of his department to

look up certain necessary facts for him. Getting up and

walking about the room, he glanced again at the portrait,

frowned, and smiled contemptuously. After reading a little more

