best of all good.... [Give] unto that man brightness and Ilory, give him health of body.’  give him the

bright, all-happy, blissful abode of the holy Ones. -- Part 3 -- .’ Awerdad Yasht 0 May Ahura Mazda be

reioiced! ....Ashem Vohu: Holiness is the best of all good....9 confess myself a worshipper of Mazda, a follower of Zarathushtra,

one who hates the Daevas and obeys the laws of Ahura; For sacrifice, prayer, propitiation, and glorification unto [Havani], the

holy and master of holiness.... Unto Haurvatat, the master; unto the prosperity of the seasons and unto the years, the

masters of holiness, 8e propitiation, with sacrifice, prayer, propitiation, and glorification. Yatha ahu vairyo: The will of the Lord is
the law of holiness....we sacrifice unto Haurvatat, the Amesha-Spenta; we sacrifice unto the prosperity of the seasons; we sacrifice unto
the years,the holy and masters of holiness. 1 Ahura Mazda spake unto Spitama Zarathushtra, saying: 9 created for the faithful

the help, the enioyments, the comforts,and the pleasures of Haurvatat. we unite them with him who would come up to

thee as one of the Amesha-Spentas, as he would come to any of the Amesha-Spentas, Vohu-Mano, Asha-Vahishta,i<1hshathra-Vairya, Spenta-Armaiti, Haurvatat, and
Ameretat. 2 He who against the thousands of thousands of those Daevas, against their ten thousands of ten thousands, against

their numberless myriads would invoke the name of Haurvatat, as one of the Amesha-Spentas, he would smite the Nasu, he

would smite Hashi he would smite Bashi, he would smite Saeni, he would smite Buii. 3 9 proclaim the faithful

man as the first [of men]; if 9 proclaim the faithful man as the first [of men], then Rashnu Razishta,

then every heavenly Yazata of male nature in company with the Amesha-Spentas will free the faithful man 4 From the

Nasu, from Hashi, from Gashi, from Saeni, from Buii; from the hordes with the wide front, from the hordes with

the many spears uplifted, from the evil man who oppresses, from the willful sinner, from the oppressor of men, from

the Yatu,from the Pairika, from the straying way. 5 How does the way of the faithful turn and part from

the way of the wicked? Ahura Mazda answered: 9t is when a man pronouncing my spell, either reading or reciting

it by heart, draws the furrows and hides there himself, [Sa.Vit7e]-' 6 '9 will smite thee, O Drui-’ whomsoever thou

art, whomsoever thou art amongst the Dru/"es that come in an open way, whomsoever thou art amongst the Dru/"es that

come by hidden way, whomsoever thou art amongst the Dru/"es that defile by contact; whatsoever Dru/' thou 13 ? Awerdad

Yasht art, 9 smite thee away from the Aryan countries; whatsoever Dru/' thou art, 9 bind thee; 9 smite thee

down, 0 ‘r9ru.t'.’9 throw thee down below, 0 Dru/'!' 7 He draws [then] three furrows: 9 proclaim him one of

the faithful; he draws six furrow: 9 proclaim him one of the faithful; he draws nine furrows: 9 proclaim him

one of thefaithful. 8 The names of those (Amesha-Spentas) smite the men turned to Nasus by the Dru/'es: the seed

and kin of the deaf are smitten,the scornful are dead, as the Zaotar Zarathushtra blows them away to woe, however

fierce, at his will and wish, as many as he wishes. .9 From the time when the sun is down

he smites them with bruising blows; from the time when the sun is no longer up, he deals deadly blows

on the Nasu with his club struck down, for the propitiation and glorification of the heavenly gods. 10 O Zarathushtra!

let not that spell be shown to any one,except by the father to his son, or by the brother to

his brother from the same womb, or by the Athravan to his pupil in blackhair, devoted to the good law,

who, devoted to the good law, holy and brave, stills all the Druies. 11 For his brightness and glory, 9

will offer unto him a sacrifice worth being heard, namely, unto /-iaurvatat, the Amesha-Spenta. Unto Haurvatat, the Amesha-Spenta, we offer
up the libations, the Haoma and meat, the baresma, the wisdom of the tongue, the holy spells, the speech, the

deeds, the libations,and the rightly-spoken words. 1.? Yatha ahu vairyo: The will of the Lord is the law of holiness....

9 bless the sacrifice and prayer, and the strength and vigour of Haurvatat, the master; of the prosperity of the

seasons and of the years, the masters of holiness. Ashem Vohu: Holiness is the best of all good.... [Give] unto

that man brightness and elory,  give him the bright, all happy, blissful abode of the holy Ones. -- Part

4 -- .7 Ardui Sur Bano Yasht {Hymn to the waters) 0 May Ahura Mazda be re/'oiced!.... Ashem Vohu: Holiness

is the best of all good.... 9 confess myself a worshipper of Mazda, a follower of Zarathushtra,one who hates the

Daevas and obeys the laws of Ahura; For sacrifice, prayer, propitiation, and glorification unto [Havani],the holy and master of holiness....
Unto the good waters, made by Mazda; unto the holy water-spring ARDV9 ANAH9TA.' unto all waters, made by Mazda; unto

all plants,made by Mazda, Be propitiation, with sacrifice, prayer, propitiation, and glorification. Yatha ahu vairyo: The will of the Lord
is the law of holiness.... 9. 1 Ahura Mazda spake unto Spitama Zarathushtra, saying-' Offerup a sacrifice, O Spitama Zarathushtra!
unto this spring of mine, Ardvi Sura Anahita, the wide-expanding and health-giving, who hates the Daevas and obeys the laws

of Ahura, who is worthy of sacrifice in the material world, worthy of prayer in the material world; the life-increasing

and holy, the herd-increasing and holy,the fold-increasing and holy, the wealth-increasing and holy,the country-increasing and holy; 2 who makes the
seed of all males pure, who makes the womb of all females pure for bringing forth, who makes all females

bring forth in safety, who puts milk into the breasts of all females in the right measure and the right

quality.‘ 3 The large river, known afar, that is as large as the whole of the waters that run along

the earth; that runs powerfully from the height Hukairya down to the sea Vouru-téasha. 4 All the shores of the

sea Vouru-/<:asha are boiling over, all the middle of it is boiling over, when she runs down there, when she

streams down there, she, Ardvi Sura Anahita, who has a thousand cells and a thousand channels: the extent of each

of those cells, of each of those channels is as much as a man can ride in forty days, riding

on a good horse. 5 From this river of mine alone flow all the waters that spread all over

