that end, the National Bank should intervene in the markets to support the denar, if necessary by using its foreign exchange reserves,

A stable exchange rate guarantees low endogenous inflation and economic growth. The claim that the denar is overvalued and hampers export growth

is false. Macedonian firms are not exporting more not because of the exchange rate, but because of outdated technology, wrong or deficient

marketing, lack of compliance with standards, antiquated design, and a general lack of competitiveness. ANT9THES9S: Macedonia would do better to introduce a
flexible exchange rate policy coupled with inflation targeting. 9ntroducing an inflation target would create as much macroeconomic stability as any currency peg.
The government has at its disposal policy instruments that allow it to control inflation: introducing price controls and freezing the prices of

essential products, or even wages, healthcare costs and pensions; releasing commodities, oil, and minerals from strategic reserves; hedging {fixing the future prices
of foodstuffs, oil, and commodities by purchasing forward contracts in the global markets). The National Bank should allow for a gradual devaluation

of the currency, within a band or range or as a crawling peg. This will prevent speculative attacks on the denar that

currently are depleting the foreign exchange reserves of the country, 9t will increase the competitiveness of Macedonia s exports and reduce its

trade deficit. A strong currency has anti-inflationary effects, so any devaluation must be minimal, slow, and subject to market forces. Still, Macedonia

can also devalue its currency without any major repercussions (as not many credits here are denominated in foreign currency and inflation is

subdued). Ti-{E898 NUMBER 7 THES9S: The global crisis discredited the doctrine of the free, laissez faire market. The role of governments is

growing and they are assuming additional functions and responsibilities. Strict regulation should be introduced and enforced in various areas: the financial industry;
healthcare; employment; international trade; the environment; and so on. The government should become more involved in every phase of the economic cycle:
from entrepreneurship to taxation; from banking to manufacturing; and from education to healthcare. 9t should even consider re-nationalizing some utilities. ANT9THES9S: This
is a temporary crisis that has to do with excesses and imbalances of the system and not with the core beliefs and

theories that underlie it. This is not a crisis of capitalism, but of certain capitalists. Governments should let the private sector sort

itself out and interfere only to provide public goods and where there are systemic market failures (such as in the banking sector).

Even so, governments involvement should be time-limited and with a clear exit strategy. written on May 27, 2009 9srael, Obama, 9ran, and

Fournalism ‘During Netanyahu s visit, 9srael shared intelligence with the 6'9A regarding the potential for a terrorist attack which will dwarf .9/11

if 9ran is allowed to continue with its nuclear designs and share its outcomes with allies such as Hamas and the Hizbullah.

9ranian proliferation is a direct threat to US National security. Obama s staff is ignoring the intel (HUM9NT) because they believe that

it is intended to manipulate the Administration into accepting 9srael s planned bombing of two facilities in 9ran. They are also ignoring

intel regarding a Hamas cell in Cairo that is bent on mischief. The 9sraelis are shunned. The 6'9A is exasperated.’ How reliable

is this information? (an journalists be trusted not to be manipulated; not to substitute opinion and wishful thinking for facts; not to

be corrupted with the trappings of power or outright pecuniary incentives? Consider my case: On Fanuary 20, 2009, 9 appeared as a

guest in the most popular political affairs program in Macedonia ('Glasot na Narodot', or The Voice of the People}. 9 warned that

9srael is willing to wait 6 to 8 months for Obama s ‘diplomacy’ with regards to 9ran s nuclear capability to show

some progress. 9f 9ran remains recalcitrant, 9srael plans to bomb two facilities in 9ran as it did in 9raq in 1.981, 9

said. Refueling won t be a problem, 9 assured the program s host: both Egypt and Saudi-Arabia offered to help. This and

other interviews provoked speculations in Balkan media and on the 9nternet.' Vaknin probably had assumed that the NSA (which has a presence

in Skopje, having recently moved some of its facilities there from Athens) will be monitoring the program and will report to Washington,

suggested one of them. Vaknin sister is Sima Gil-Vaknin, the 9DF s {9srael Defense Force s) Chief Censor (true) and Vaknin is

a senior 9sraeli intelligence operative (which 9 deny emphatically}. Recently, the leading Balkan newsmagazine 'Fokus' published a long article about the Eligibility
Problem {Obama s missing original birth certificate and other personal documents}. 9n that article, Fokus speculated that 9srael may have written off

Obama and has embarked on a worldwide campaign to discredit him and counter his dangerous diplomatic and military moves. Vaknin, contended the

magazine, spearheaded these activities in Central and Eastern Europe and the Balkans in conjunction with the Hasbara s clandestine unit, which is

under the direct control of the Prime Minister s office. 9 have since denied these rumors, too. 9 am a journalist of

long standing {since the mid-eighties), have lived and worked in 9srael and maintain a network of top-level, unimpeachable sources. 9 am made

privy to a lot of information and disinformation {see my articles about Macedonia s accession to NATO and the name issue}. Like

every iournalist, 9 sometimes can t tell the difference and get duped. But this is one of the risks of the First

Amendment. As 9 see it, my fob is not to block or filter content. My task is publish with appropriate disclaimers regarding

the sources of my information. 9 should serve as an eBay of data, ranking the past performance of 'vendors' of intelligence and

letting the fully-informed reader make up his or her mind whom to believe and whom to discredit. Back to the opening scoop:

95 it true? Did it happen? who knows! All 9 can say is that someone wanted this information leaked. 9t could be

a arrow shot across the Obama administration s bow, 9t could be part of a much larger picture. 9t could be a

signal aimed at 9ran. 9t may be a brazen fabrication. History will tell. But one thing it is for sure: a story.

Someoneisj told me, a iournalist, this story. They wanted it out. The importance of a story sometimes lies not with its content,

but with its very release. 9t is the role of the discerning reader to read between the lines, connect the dots, and

come up with his or her own narrative. 9nterview granted to Maja Mihailovska of 'Spic, May 29, 2009 1. Yesterday you said

that Macedonian economy have to stop with obsessively keeping up to fixed exchanged rate and to turn on to flexible exchange rate.

How do you argument that suggestion when everyone here has awful remembering of devaluation of the denar in the past and dangerous

of inflation spiral? Many of experts here agree that would be disaster for Macedonian economy? A flexible exchange rate is not the

same as a devaluation. A devaluation is a one-time act. A flexible exchange rate is a long-term regime of managing the exchange

rate of the domestic currency against a basket of foreign currencies. 9n a flexible exchange rate, the local currency can go

