one, the historical-cultural one, and the psychological-emotional one. Vn evolutionary terms, good iudgment and intelligence equal survival and the transmission of one
s genes across the generations, Faithfulness and a sense of responsibility (financial and otherwise) guarantee that the woman s partner will persevere

in the all-important tasks of homebuilding and childfcaring. Finally, being affectionate cements the emotional bond between male and female and militates against
potentially life-threatening maltreatment and abuse of the latter by the former. From the historical-cultural point of view, most societies and cultures, well

into the previous century, have been male-dominated and patriarchal. The male s iudgment prevailed and his decisions dictated the course of the

couple s life. An intelligent and financially responsible male provided a secure environment in which to raise children. The woman lived through

her man, vicariously: his successes and failures reflected on her and determined her standing in society and her ability to develop and

thrive on the personal level. His faithfulness and affections served to prevent competitors from usurping the female s place and thus threatening

her male-dependent cosmos. Granted, evolutionary constraints are anachronistic and social-cultural mores have changed: women, at least in western societies, are now independent,
both emotionally and economically. Yet, millennia of conditioned behavior cannot be eradicated in a few decades. women continue to look in men

for the qualities that used to matter in entirely different circumstances. Finally, women are more level-headed when it comes to bonding. They

tend to emphasize long-term relationships, based on reciprocity and the adhesive qualities of strong emotions. Good iudgment, intelligence, and a developed sense
of responsibility are crucial to the maintenance and preservation of functional, lasting, and durable couples - and so are faithfulness and being

affectionate. Soaring divorce rates and the rise of single parenthood prove that women are not good at recognizing the qualities they seek

in men. 9t is not easy to tell apart the genuine article from the unctuous pretender. while intelligence {or lack thereof) can

be discerned on a first date, it is difficult to predict traits such as faithfulness, good iudgment, and reliability. Affections can really

be mere affectations and women are sometimes so desperate for a mate that they delude themselves and treat their date as a

blank screen onto which they pro/'ect their wishes and needs. Q. what are the top 5 Things Men Look for in a

woman, the top five qualities? why is this something men look for in women - why is it important? How does this

quality positively affect a relationship or marriage? How do men recognize it? A. From my experience and correspondence with thousands of couples,

men seem to place a premium on these qualities in a woman: 1. Physical Attraction and Sexual Availability 2. Good-naturedness 3. Faithfulness

4, Protective Affectionateness 5. Dependability There are three possible explanations as to why men look for these qualities in women: the evolutionary-biological
one, the historical-cultural one, and the psychological-emotional one. ‘in evolutionary terms, physical attractiveness denotes good underlying health and genetic-immunological compatibility. These guarantee
the efficacious transmission of one s genes to future generations. Of course, having sex is a precondition for bearing children and, so,

sexual availability is important, but only when it is coupled with faithfulness: men are loth to raise and invest scarce resource in

someone else s progeny. Dependable women are more likely to propagate the species, so they are desirable. Finally, men and women are

likely to do a better iob of raising a family if the woman is good-natured, easy-going, adaptable, affectionate, and mothering. These qualities

cement the emotional bond between male and female and prevent potentially life-threatening maltreatment and abuse of the latter by the former. From

the historical-cultural point of view, most societies and cultures, well into the previous century, have been male-dominated and patriarchal, women were treated

as chattels or possessions, an extension of the male. The ‘ownership’ of an attractive female advertised to the world the male s

prowess and desirability. Her good nature, affectionateness, and protectiveness proved that her man was a worthwhile 'CatCh' and elevated his social status.

Her dependability and faithfulness allowed him to embark on long trips or complex, long-term undertakings without the distractions of emotional uncertainty and
the anxieties of letdown and betrayal. Finally, men are more cavalier when it comes to bonding. They tend to maintain both long-term

and short-term relationships and are, therefore, far less exclusive and monogamous than women. They are more concerned with what they are getting

out of a relationship than with reciprocity and, though they often feel as strongly as women and can be equally romantic, their

emotional landscape and expression are more constrained and they sometimes confuse love with possessiveness or even codependence. Thus, men tend to emphasize
the external (physical attraction) and the functional (good-naturedness, faithfulness, reliability) over the internal and the purely emotional. Soaring divorce rates and the
rise of single parenthood prove that men are not good at recognizing the qualities they seek in women. ‘it is not easy

to tell apart the genuine article from the unctuous pretender. while physical attractiveness (or lack thereof} can be discerned on a first

date, it is difficult to predict traits such as faithfulness, good-naturedness, and reliability. Affections can really be mere affectations and men are

sometimes such narcissistic navel-gazers that they delude themselves and treat their date as a blank screen onto which they project their wishes

and needs. M Marriage Despite all the fashionable theories of marriage, the narratives and the feminists, the reasons to get married largely

remain the same. True, there have been role reversals and new stereotypes have cropped up. 8ut biological, physiological and biochemical facts are

less amenable to modern criticisms of culture, Men are still men and women are still women, Men and women marry to form:

The Sexual Dyad - ‘7ntended to gratify the partners sexual attraction and secures a stable, consistent and available source of sexual gratification.

The Economic Dyad - The couple is a functioning economic unit within which the economic activities of the members of the dyad

and of additional entrants are carried out. The economic unit generates more wealth than it consumes and the synergy between its members

is likely to lead to gains in production and in productivity relative to individual efforts and investments. The Social Dyad - The

members of the couple bond as a result of implicit or explicit, direct, or indirect social pressures. Such pressure can manifest itself

in numerous forms. ‘7n ﬂudaism, a person cannot hold some religious posts unless he is married. This is a form of economic

pressure. ‘7n most human societies, avowed bachelors are considered to be socially deviant and abnormal. They are condemned by society, ridiculed, shunned

and isolated, effectively ex-communicated. Partly to avoid these sanctions and partly to enioy the emotional glow that comes with conformity and acceptance,
couples get married. Today, a myriad lifestyles are on offer. The old fashioned, nuclear family is one of many variants. Children are

reared by single parents. Homosexual couples bind and abound. 8ut a pattern is discernible all the same: almost 95% of the adult

population get married ultimately. They settle into a two-member arrangement, whether formalized and sanctioned religiously or legally - or not. The Companionship
Dyad - Formed by adults in search of sources of long-term and stable support, emotional warmth, empathy, care, good advice and

