would tell ioe dan that when you die, you cease to exist. one day, a friend of theirs was in

a car accident. both boys were very upset and asked to go to the hospital. as they saw the boy

lying in the bed, bandaged, they both were a little frightened about the reality of him dying. the parents of
the boy were there and very concerned, also. the older brother, who had been driving, had died at the scene.

now, they could only wait to see if their only remaining child would live. mike had taken the boys to

the hospital and had an opportunity to share with the parents and to pray for their son s healing. before
mike left, the parents gave their lives to christ. this meant they were also leaving their only child in his
hands. gene ir. listened to all that was said and had an opportunity to believe then, but chose not to.

when the boy got well and the parents gave all the llory to god, gene /'r. would /'ust comment that,

‘it was not a miracle, he iust had good doctors.’ don clarence was the second oldest of gene s boys.

he was always in trouble in school and away from school. ionathan ieremiah was mike s second son, he and
don were iust as close as gene /'r. and /'oe dan. they played together all the time, and they also

ate lunch together. when don wanted iohn to do the same bad things that he was doing, iohn drew the

line. he always said that it was sin and he would not sin against god. don spoke iust like his

dad. he said, ‘there is no god and there is nothing called sin. sin is only in the mind of

a person that is insecure.’ the boys grew further apart as time went on. it seemed they had less and

less in common and iohn did not want to be a bad witness. the next three children that gene and

roxann had were two girls and a boy. the first was daphne, the second was regina and the boy was

butch. both girls were very beautiful when they were babies, as they grew, their beauty increased, which even surprised their
parents. some people said the girls were more beautiful than movie stars. with their beauty, it did not take long
for the boys to notice that both sisters were knockouts. real problems did not occur when the girls first started
to school, but by the second grade, the boys, especially the older boys, were already casting their eyes upon them.
when the girls started the sixth grade, boys were calling every night. also, mother nature started to work on the
girls and by the time they were in the eighth grade, they were developed better than most teens and most
women. as the children grew older and could do things on their own, they started straying further from mike S
kids. their ‘groups’ were not the same anymore. they then began to look for 'exciting' things to get away with
or do and spent less and less time at each other s homes, as well as their own home. when

daphne was in the ninth grade, the problems started to get very serious. the high school boys were calling and
taking her out every weekend. sometimes, if she had her home work finished, she was allowed to go out on

the weekdays. she would always rush to complete things whether it was right or not. she wanted to be the

most popular girl in the school and to do that, she must be seen with the 'cool' guys. one night,

the telephone rang. gene and daphne picked the phone up at the same time. when he heard daphne say hello,

he was going to put the receiver down, but something told him not to. ‘oh, hi, ierry! it is so

good to hear from you. i miss you so much!’ 'daphne, we were iust at school together a while ago.‘

'i know, but ierry, i just love being with you. you are so cool and i would do anything to

be with you all the time,‘ ‘anything, daphne? how about we take a drive down to the park or if

your parents are going to be gone, maybe we could /'ust stay at your house, and.’ after he listened to

the boy on the line talking, and he heard daphne tell him that she would do anything, if he would

take her out. anything. gene s stomach dropped to the floor. the very same thing she was telling the boys

was the same thing that girls had said to him when he was in high school. he thought back about

what they “were saying and the things that he would always get from the girls who said that to him.

the lord put a thought into his mind, '/'ust as you were taking advantage of young naive girls in high

school, now it is time for you to see what it is like when the boys do the same thing

to your daughters.‘ the first boy that took her from being a girl to a woman was a senior. he

had taken her out four other times and, each and every time, he said he was in love with her.

on the fifth date, they had parked and started to ‘make out' for iust a little while. as you can

guess, the making out went further and further. when the date was over, she was not a virgin. after three
more dates, she d had her fill of this boy that was so childish. she wanted to date real men,

the kind of guys she was looking for were those that could show a girl a real good time, at

least two or three times a night. in other words, she wanted sex, but sex was not satisfying the void

in her life. she could never put her finger on that void, so she thought the more sex she

