Father : there is one that accuseth you, even Moses, in whom ye trust, For had ye believed Moses, ye

would have believed me .' for he wrote of me. But if ye believe not his writings, how shall ye

believe my words .7 6 The Feeding of the Five Thousand After these things Fesus went over the sea of

Galilee, which is the sea of Tiberias. And a great multitude followed him, because they saw his miracles which he
did on them that were diseased. 34 35 36 37 33 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47

1 2 2257 ﬂohn 6 And 9esus went up into a mountain, and there he sat with his disciples. And

the passover, a feast of the ilews, was nigh. when ﬂesus then lifted up his eyes, and saw a great

company come unto him, he saith unto Philip, whence shall we buy bread, that these may eat .7 And this

he said to prove him : for he himself knew what he would do. Philip answered him, Two hundred pennyworth
of bread is not sufficient for them, that every one of them may take a little. One of his disciples,

Andrew, Simon Peter s brother, saith unto him, There is a lad here, which hath five barley loaves, and two
small fishes : but what are they among so many .7 And tlesus said, Make the men sit down. Now

there was much grass in the place. So the men sat down, in number about five thousand. And ﬂesus took

the loaves .' and when he had given thanks, he distributed to the disciples, and the disciples to them that

were set down ; and likewise of the fishes as much as they would. when they were filled, he said

unto his disciples, Gather up the fragments that remain, that nothing be lost. Therefore they gathered them together, and filled
twelve baskets with the fragments of the five barley loaves, which remained over and above unto them that had eaten.
Then those men, when they had seen the miracle that Fesus did, said, This is of a truth that Prophet

that should come into the world. when ﬂesus therefore perceived that they would come and take him by force, to
make him a king, he departed again into a mountain himself alone. 9esus walks on the Sea And when even

was now come, his disciples went down unto the sea, 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12

73 74 15 16 2258 iohn 6 and entered into a ship, and went over the sea toward Capernaum. And

it was now dark, and Fesus was not come to them. And the sea arose by reason of a great

wind that blew. So when they had rowed about five and twenty or thirty furlongs, they see desus walking on
the sea, and drawing nigh unto the ship : and they Were afraid. But he saith unto them, 9t is

9 ; be not afraid. Then they willingly received him into the ship : and immediately the ship was at

the land whither they went. The People Seek ﬂesus The day following, when the people, which stood on the other
side of the sea, saw that there was none other boat there, save that one whereinto his disciples were entered,
and that 9esus went not with his disciples into the boat, but that his disciples were gone away alone ;

(howbeit there came other boats from Tiberias nigh unto the place where they did eat bread, after that the Lord
had given thanks :) when the people therefore saw that ﬂesus was not there, neither his disciples, they also took
shipping, and came to Capernaum, seeking for ﬂesus. ﬂesus the Bread of Life And when they had found him on
the other side of the sea, they said unto him, Rabbi, when camest thou hither .7 Fesus answered them and

said, Verily, verily, 9 say unto you, Ye seek me, not because ye saw the miracles, but because ye did

eat of the loaves, and were filled. Labor not for the meat which perisheth, but for that meat which endureth
unto everlasting life, which the Son of man shall give unto you .' for him hath God the Father sealed.

Then said they unto him, what shall we do, that we might work the works of God .7 17 18

19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 2259 Fohn 6 ﬂesus answered and said unto them, This

is the work of God, that ye believe on him whom he hath sent. They said therefore unto him, what

sign showest thou then, that we may see, and believe thee .7 what dost thou work .7 Our fathers did

eat manna in the desert .' as it is written, He gave them bread from heaven to eat. Then ﬂesus

said unto them, Verily, verily, 9 say unto you, Moses gave you not that bread from heaven ,' but my

Father giveth you the true bread from heaven, For the bread of God is he which cometh down from heaven,
and giveth life unto the world. Then said they unto him, Lord, evermore give us this bread. And iesus said

unto them, 9 am the bread of life : he that cometh to me shall never hunger ,' and he

that believeth on me shall never thirst. But 9 said unto you, That ye also have seen me, and believe

not. All that the Father giveth me shall come to me ; and him that cometh to me 9 will

in no wise cast out. For 9 came down from heaven, not to do mine own will, but the will

of him that sent me. And this is the Father s will which hath sent me, that of all which

he hath given me 9 should lose nothing, but should raise it up again at the last day. And this

is the will of him that sent me, that every one which seeth the Son, and believeth on him, may

have everlasting life : and 9 will raise him up at the last day. The iews then murmured at him,

because he said, 9 am the bread which came down from heaven. And they said, 9s not this iesus, the

son of Voseph, whose father and mother we know .7 how is it then that he saith, 9 came down

from heaven .7 Fesus therefore answered and said unto them, Murmur not among yourselves, No man can come to me,
except the Father which hath sent me draw him : and 9 will raise him up at the last

