when ms. faye finally walked in on this invisible man and scared him off, she reports that he was a

gray haired old man who proceeded to iump out the third floor window and take off running. does anyone here

share my frustration? any comments of explanation? okay, answer me this, were there any classified sites this individual was not
able to get into right under our noses?‘ markman s overdue visit to the university brought interesting, though unsettling, news.
the second floor security office, usually buzzing with activity, was nearly deserted. a dispassionate secretary directed him to meeting room
201. ‘i don t have anything to do today. i hate cable television. i already called back to florida twice.

they won t let me into my grandfather s apartment until after the burial. ?o, if you don t mind,

i ll come and hang out with you for a while.‘ i stopped and turned to him. ‘you heard what

mark said.‘ ‘yes. and it might not hurt to have ?omeone else keeping an eye open tonight, don t you

think?‘ he gave a little half shrug. ‘let me do this. let me have ?omething to do ?o i m

not sitting in my room waiting for iunior to show up again,‘ ‘i wouldn t mind the company for a

while,‘ i admitted. mark s news had spooked me, though i wouldn t say ?o aloud. ‘but you don t

have to stay all night.‘ ‘fair enough.‘ my cousin scott barely grunted goodbye when i took over. yeah, it s

mostly family running the shop. i keyed the register over to me, took care of a customer scott had abandoned

in his haste to get away, and then grabbed a chair out of the back room ?o derrick could sit

while we talked. derrick turned out to be nice company. we talked about high school, though i steered clear of

anything touching on the trouble he d always been in. ‘?o, are many of the class still around?‘ he asked.

‘reba is,‘ i answered with a bit of a snarl. he winced and i remembered, too late, how the two

of them had been hot and heavy and in a lot of trouble for sneaking off together when they should

have been in class. ‘she s married now and has three kids,‘ i offered. ‘oh. good. good for her, i

mean. glad she found ?omeone.‘ good reaction. he might even have blushed. i smiled, until i heard the ?ound of

a distant car ‘/unior s on his way,‘ i warned. ‘you should get out of sight. damn. customer in the

wash room already ‘ ‘how the hell can you tell iunior oh. for a second i thought you were psychic.‘

he glanced toward the gas pumps, but only a white subaru sat under the awning. ‘he might be heading ?omewhere

else ‘ ‘he always stops here on his way home from work to buy his nightly twelve pack.‘ ‘figures. i

ll stick with you. i don t want to run and hide every time one of the westons show up.‘

‘derrick ‘ ‘if he gets rowdy again, we ll go outside. he might be smart. you have a video camera

going and he s paranoid about those things.‘ ‘doesn t stop him from making passes at me.‘ ‘i m surprised

sally married him and has stuck around.‘ ?o, he knew a little bit about what went on with the westons.

that surprised me. the truck pulled up in front of the door, the muffler ?o loud the ?ound shook the

windows when he revved the engine. the dogs paced around in the back, drenched and unhappy. he took them to

work at the junk yard over in crawford most days. ?ometimes they came back with torn ears and limps another

rea?on we thought he had a dog fighting ring, though the cops hadn t been able to track down the

place. i knew they tried, though. no one liked the westons much. today, three of the dogs leapt out of

the back and yapped and growled as he swaggered up to the door, covered in grease and mud and god

knew what else. he always acted like i should find it swiney. ‘thank god i m not related to the

westons,‘ derrick suddenly said and made me grin, despite the situation. iunior came inside, yelling obscenities at the dogs. the
dogs bounced against the door after he came through, leaving long muddy streaks, which annoyed me more. iunior spotted derrick.
i started to back away, even with the counter between me and him. i d never want to see anyone

turn such anger on me, and i dared a glance at derrick. he d kept his place, and the placid

look on his face must have annoyed iunior all the more. he took four stomping steps closer, his hands in

fists at his side. ‘oh, no. i figured you would come ?ometime because i am such a seductive, svelte, and

slender woman that you could not resist for very long.‘ she hid her face in his shoulder ?o he would

not hear nor see her giggles. rick placed a hand on her firm butt and drew her as close as

they could get in that position. ‘you re fibbing to me. you were having a hissy waiting for me to

get here to hold you, kiss you and make you feel like i m seducing you.‘ ‘my lover, you have

already seduced me. at least metaphorically.‘ ‘oh iesus, an english ma/'or. seductive, svelte and throw in metaphorically.‘ ‘did you like
that? i have more time again in my life to study. you have adiusted my head to make me ?o,

neh?‘ ‘i want to lay on you, but i cannot.‘ ‘another christmas present?‘ ‘no. a pre-christmas present on about the

twelfth or thirteenth of december. in the meantime we will have to settle for nestling together with my backside against
your belly. now, dinner. help me up and i ll fix it for us.‘ ‘we will fix it. i

